docs/source/development/add-ons/install-an-add-on-stable.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to install a frontend add-on in your Plone project"
    "property=og:description": "How to install a frontend add-on in your Plone project"
    "property=og:title": "How to install a frontend add-on"
    "keywords": "add-on, Volto, install"
---

# Configuring Volto to use a released add-on (stable release)

You can install a Volto add-on just like any other JS package:

```shell
yarn add name-of-add-on
```

If the add-on is not published on npm, you can retrieve it directly from Github:

```shell
yarn add collective/volto-dropdownmenu
```

Next, you'll need to add the add-on (identified by its JS package name) to the
`addons` key of your Volto project's `package.json`.

```js
{
  "name": "my-nice-volto-project",

  "addons": [
    "acme-volto-foo-add-on",
    "@plone/some-add-on",
    "collective-another-volto-add-on"
  ],

}
```

```{warning}
Adding the add-on package to the `addons` key is mandatory! It allows Volto
to treat that package properly and provide it with BabelJS language
features. In Plone terminology, it is like including a Python egg to the
`zcml` section of `zc.buildout`.
```

```{seealso}
Alternatively, you can use `volto.config.js` to declare add-ons in your Plone project:
{doc}`../configuration/volto-config-js`
```

Commit message:

Move explanation into correct file. Specify Volto 17 as stable release. Include mention of npm Registry with link. Fix grammar and syntax. Apply style guide.

docs/source/development/add-ons/install-an-add-on-stable.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to install an add-on in Volto 17 (stable release)"
    "property=og:description": "How to install an add-on in Volto 17 (stable release)"
    "property=og:title": "Install an add-on in Volto 17 (stable release)"
    "keywords": "add-on, Volto, install"
---

# Install an add-on in Volto 17 (stable release)

This document describes how to install an add-on in Volto 17, the latest stable release.

You can install an add-on just like any other JavaScript package from the [npm Registry](https://www.npmjs.com/).

```shell
yarn add name-of-add-on
```

If the add-on is not published on the npm Registry, you can install it directly from GitHub.

```shell
yarn add collective/volto-dropdownmenu
```

Next, you need to add the add-on to the `addons` key of your Plone project's {file}`package.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "my-volto-project",
  "addons": [
    "name-of-add-on"
  ]
}
```

```{seealso}
Alternatively, you can use {file}`volto.config.js` to declare add-ons in your Plone project.
See {doc}`../configuration/volto-config-js`.
```
