docs/source/theming/about-semantic.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Using Semantic UI to create responsive layouts in Volto frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "Using Semantic UI to create responsive layouts in Volto frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "About Semantic UI"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, Semantic UI, user interface"
---

# About Semantic UI

Volto uses [Semantic UI](https://semantic-ui.com/) and
[React Semantic UI](https://react.semantic-ui.com)
(via [semantic-ui-less](https://github.com/Semantic-Org/Semantic-UI-LESS))
as development framework. It helps you to create websites with responsive
layouts using human-friendly HTML. Semantic UI treats words and classes as
exchangeable concepts. Classes use syntax from natural languages like
noun/modifier relationships, word order, and plurality to link concepts
intuitively.

One of its main features is theming. Components in Semantic UI are designed to
help developers adhere to
[progressive truthfulness](https://semantic-ui.com/usage/theming.html)
in their development. Instead of having to create components from a blank
canvas, developers using Semantic UI only need to specify how their components
should differ from the default theme using CSS variables and other CSS
overrides (if required).

It features a sophisticated theming engine built with [LESS](https://lesscss.org/)
CSS preprocessor that allows you to have different layers of defaults/CSS
variables modifiers/CSS overrides in place, inheriting one from the parent in
a sensible manner:

![](semantictheming.png)

Commit message:

Deprecation warning for SemanticUI theming.

docs/source/theming/about-semantic.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Using Semantic UI to create responsive layouts in Volto frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "Using Semantic UI to create responsive layouts in Volto frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "About Semantic UI"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, Semantic UI, user interface"
---

# About Semantic UI

```{deprecated} Volto 18
Using SemanticUI theming for your project or add-on is deprecated from Volto 18 on and will be removed from Plone 7.
Plone 7 will use another theming approach, based on `@plone/components` and `@plone/theming` packages.
```

Volto uses [Semantic UI](https://semantic-ui.com/) and
[React Semantic UI](https://react.semantic-ui.com)
(via [semantic-ui-less](https://github.com/Semantic-Org/Semantic-UI-LESS))
as development framework. It helps you to create websites with responsive
layouts using human-friendly HTML. Semantic UI treats words and classes as
exchangeable concepts. Classes use syntax from natural languages like
noun/modifier relationships, word order, and plurality to link concepts
intuitively.

One of its main features is theming. Components in Semantic UI are designed to
help developers adhere to
[progressive truthfulness](https://semantic-ui.com/usage/theming.html)
in their development. Instead of having to create components from a blank
canvas, developers using Semantic UI only need to specify how their components
should differ from the default theme using CSS variables and other CSS
overrides (if required).

It features a sophisticated theming engine built with [LESS](https://lesscss.org/)
CSS preprocessor that allows you to have different layers of defaults/CSS
variables modifiers/CSS overrides in place, inheriting one from the parent in
a sensible manner:

![](semantictheming.png)
