docs/source/theming/theming-a-base-theme.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Customize a base theme such as Volto Light Theme via SCSS."
    "property=og:description": "Customize a base theme such as Volto Light Theme via SCSS."
    "property=og:title": "Theming a base theme such as Volto Light Theme"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, themes, Volto Light Theme"
---

# Customize a base theme

You can customize a base theme for your add-on.
The following examples use [Volto Light Theme](https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-light-theme) as a base theme.


## File structure

In your Volto add-on's {file}`src` folder, create a subfolder named {file}`theme`.
Inside {file}`theme` create two empty files named {file}`_main.scss` and {file}`_variables.scss`.
Refer to the following file system diagram.

```text
src/
├── components
├── index.js
└── theme
    ├── _main.scss
    └── _variables.scss
```


## `_variables.scss`

{file}`_variables.scss` is where you can override SCSS variables of the base theme.

```scss
$text-color: #000;
$font-size: 18px;
$line-height: 24px;
```


## `_main.scss`

{file}`_main.scss` is where you should put all custom styles.
You can also include other SCSS or CSS files here.

Commit message:

Deprecation warning for SemanticUI theming.

docs/source/theming/theming-a-base-theme.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Customize a base theme such as Volto Light Theme via SCSS."
    "property=og:description": "Customize a base theme such as Volto Light Theme via SCSS."
    "property=og:title": "Theming a base theme such as Volto Light Theme"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, themes, Volto Light Theme"
---

```{deprecated} Volto 18
Using SemanticUI theming for your project or add-on is deprecated from Volto 18 on and will be removed from Plone 7.
Plone 7 will use another theming approach, based on `@plone/components` and `@plone/theming` packages.
```

# Customize a base theme

You can customize a base theme for your add-on.
The following examples use [Volto Light Theme](https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-light-theme) as a base theme.


## File structure

In your Volto add-on's {file}`src` folder, create a subfolder named {file}`theme`.
Inside {file}`theme` create two empty files named {file}`_main.scss` and {file}`_variables.scss`.
Refer to the following file system diagram.

```text
src/
├── components
├── index.js
└── theme
    ├── _main.scss
    └── _variables.scss
```


## `_variables.scss`

{file}`_variables.scss` is where you can override SCSS variables of the base theme.

```scss
$text-color: #000;
$font-size: 18px;
$line-height: 24px;
```


## `_main.scss`

{file}`_main.scss` is where you should put all custom styles.
You can also include other SCSS or CSS files here.
