packages/scripts/README.md, before:

# @plone/scripts package

This package is a library of scripts that are useful to automate certain tasks when developing Volto core or Volto projects.

## i18n

It scans and detects i18n messages from the code and adds them to the i18n machinery.

See https://6.docs.plone.org/volto/development/i18n.html for more information.

This script is installed in the `node_modules/.bin` directory and can be called via `yarn i18n` or directly in the `scripts` `package.json` part.

## changelogupdater

It updates the change log according the current defaults in the Volto project.

See how Volto core uses it, along with `release-it`, to automate the release process:

https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/4f52bf61062d1e34e3391ed0a36781b8df98a316/package.json#L173-L192

### Bump

Given the version, you can update the first `unreleased` literal. `release-it` provides it as a `version` variable.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater bump ${version}
```

### Excerpt

It generates the change log of the version to be released. This is useful when creating the Release information and sending it to GitHub.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater.js excerpt
```

### Back

It creates the blank placeholder for the next release. Given the (next) version, it will be added to the placeholder.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater.js back ${version}
```

## addon

This script creates and configures a vanilla project using the Volto generator.
The project is configured to have the current add-on installed and ready to work with.
This script is useful to bootstrap an isolated environment that can be used to quickly develop the add-on or for demo purposes.
It's also useful when testing an add-on in a CI environment.

**Note:** It's quite similar when you develop a Plone backend add-on in the Python side, and embed a ready to use Plone build (using buildout or pip) in order to develop and test the package.

Unfortunately, the NodeJS tooling does not work well with symlinks or outside the root of the project.
This script proceeds in the following way:

1. Generates a vanilla project using the official Volto Yo Generator (@plone/generator-volto)
2. Configures it to use the add-on with the name stated in the `package.json`
3. Copies over the root of the add-on (`src` and essential files) inside the created project

After this, you can change directory to the created project, by default `addon-testing-project`.
The name of the created project is parameterizable.

After that you can use the full fledged project, and run any standard Volto command for linting, acceptance test or unit tests.

### clone (git)

Given the add-on remote git repository, it pulls and configures it into the vanilla project generated by the script.

`npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone [options] <source> [destination]`

```console
    Usage: addon clone [options] <source> [destination]

    clone a repository into a newly created directory

    Options:
      -p, --private          set if the repo is private, then GITHUB_TOKEN is used
      -b, --branch <branch>  set the repo branch, defaults to main
      -c, --canary           downloads latest Volto canary (alpha) version
      -h, --help             display help for command
```

This next command downloads the `volto-blocks-grid` add-on from its git repository's `main` branch, and will generate a project with the latest Volto canary (alpha) version.

```shell
npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-blocks-grid.git --branch main --canary
```

This will create a directory named `addon-testing-project`, and will bootstrap a new project using Volto's standard project generator.
It will adjust the configuration of this project to setup the add-on in the project using `mrs-developer`, and the git URL given to fetch the add-on contents.
You can specify the branch to be used, if the project should use the latest alpha available.
For private repositories, it uses the `GITHUB_TOKEN` present in your environment variables to fetch it.

After this, as a developer you can use the usual project commands to run tests (unit, linting, acceptance) inside the generated `addon-testing-project`.
You can configure the CI of your choice for automated testing, you can take a look at how it's done in: https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-blocks-grid/tree/main/.github/workflows

The idea is to issue commands inside the generated `addon-testing-project` project and do your checks.
Take special care on how to pass down to the `npx` command the current pull request branch.
Depending on your CI system, this might be different.

### clone local

You can also clone the local add-on using:

```shell
npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone .
```

This only works if you execute the command from the root of your add-on directory.

### consolidate

While developing, you might have done changes inside the generated project, and you most probably want to consolidate them, back into the root of the repository.
By running this script, it copies over from `addon-testing-project/src/addons/<my-addon>` to the root of your repository.

It should be run at the root of the add-on, and it gets an optional `source` argument in case you have specified a directory other than `addon-testing-project`.

`npx -p @plone/scripts addon consolidate --help`

```console
    Usage: addon consolidate [options] [source]

    Consolidate a cloned project

    Options:
      -h, --help  display help for command
```

Commit message:

Add dependencies syncronizer utility (#5879)
Co-authored-by: Steve Piercy <web@stevepiercy.com>

packages/scripts/README.md, after:

# @plone/scripts package

This package is a library of scripts that are useful to automate certain tasks when developing Volto core or Volto projects.

## i18n

It scans and detects i18n messages from the code and adds them to the i18n machinery.

See https://6.docs.plone.org/volto/development/i18n.html for more information.

This script is installed in the `node_modules/.bin` directory and can be called via `yarn i18n` or directly in the `scripts` `package.json` part.

## `volto-update-deps`

Given an existing project path, `volto-update-deps` updates the Volto `dependencies` and `devDependencies` for the existing Volto (`@plone/volto`) version in the `package.json` file.

If you are in the process of upgrading your project to a given Volto version, you should update the `package.json` `@plone/volto` dependencies key to use the updated version, then run the script.
The script is included in the `@plone/scripts` package.
You can run it from inside your project's directory root.

```shell
pnpm exec volto-update-deps .
```

Or run it directly from the `.bin` folder.

```shell
./node_modules/.bin/volto-update-deps.js path/to/my/project
```

## Deprecated utilites

The following utilities are no longer used by core or in projects.

### changelogupdater

It updates the change log according the current defaults in the Volto project.

See how Volto core uses it, along with `release-it`, to automate the release process:

https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/4f52bf61062d1e34e3391ed0a36781b8df98a316/package.json#L173-L192

#### Bump

Given the version, you can update the first `unreleased` literal. `release-it` provides it as a `version` variable.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater bump ${version}
```

#### Excerpt

It generates the change log of the version to be released. This is useful when creating the Release information and sending it to GitHub.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater.js excerpt
```

#### Back

It creates the blank placeholder for the next release. Given the (next) version, it will be added to the placeholder.

```shell
yarn changelogupdater.js back ${version}
```

### addon

This script creates and configures a vanilla project using the Volto generator.
The project is configured to have the current add-on installed and ready to work with.
This script is useful to bootstrap an isolated environment that can be used to quickly develop the add-on or for demo purposes.
It's also useful when testing an add-on in a CI environment.

**Note:** It's quite similar when you develop a Plone backend add-on in the Python side, and embed a ready to use Plone build (using buildout or pip) in order to develop and test the package.

Unfortunately, the NodeJS tooling does not work well with symlinks or outside the root of the project.
This script proceeds in the following way:

1. Generates a vanilla project using the official Volto Yo Generator (@plone/generator-volto)
2. Configures it to use the add-on with the name stated in the `package.json`
3. Copies over the root of the add-on (`src` and essential files) inside the created project

After this, you can change directory to the created project, by default `addon-testing-project`.
The name of the created project is parameterizable.

After that you can use the full fledged project, and run any standard Volto command for linting, acceptance test or unit tests.

#### clone (git)

Given the add-on remote git repository, it pulls and configures it into the vanilla project generated by the script.

`npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone [options] <source> [destination]`

```console
    Usage: addon clone [options] <source> [destination]

    clone a repository into a newly created directory

    Options:
      -p, --private          set if the repo is private, then GITHUB_TOKEN is used
      -b, --branch <branch>  set the repo branch, defaults to main
      -c, --canary           downloads latest Volto canary (alpha) version
      -h, --help             display help for command
```

This next command downloads the `volto-blocks-grid` add-on from its git repository's `main` branch, and will generate a project with the latest Volto canary (alpha) version.

```shell
npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-blocks-grid.git --branch main --canary
```

This will create a directory named `addon-testing-project`, and will bootstrap a new project using Volto's standard project generator.
It will adjust the configuration of this project to setup the add-on in the project using `mrs-developer`, and the git URL given to fetch the add-on contents.
You can specify the branch to be used, if the project should use the latest alpha available.
For private repositories, it uses the `GITHUB_TOKEN` present in your environment variables to fetch it.

After this, as a developer you can use the usual project commands to run tests (unit, linting, acceptance) inside the generated `addon-testing-project`.
You can configure the CI of your choice for automated testing, you can take a look at how it's done in: https://github.com/kitconcept/volto-blocks-grid/tree/main/.github/workflows

The idea is to issue commands inside the generated `addon-testing-project` project and do your checks.
Take special care on how to pass down to the `npx` command the current pull request branch.
Depending on your CI system, this might be different.

#### clone local

You can also clone the local add-on using:

```shell
npx -p @plone/scripts addon clone .
```

This only works if you execute the command from the root of your add-on directory.

#### consolidate

While developing, you might have done changes inside the generated project, and you most probably want to consolidate them, back into the root of the repository.
By running this script, it copies over from `addon-testing-project/src/addons/<my-addon>` to the root of your repository.

It should be run at the root of the add-on, and it gets an optional `source` argument in case you have specified a directory other than `addon-testing-project`.

`npx -p @plone/scripts addon consolidate --help`

```console
    Usage: addon consolidate [options] [source]

    Consolidate a cloned project

    Options:
      -h, --help  display help for command
```
