docs/source/development/i18n.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Internationalization (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts."
    "property=og:description": "Internationalization (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts."
    "property=og:title": "Internationalization"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, Blocks, Internationalization, i18n"
---

# Internationalization


{term}`Internationalization` (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts.
This chapter describes the most common use cases for internationalization when developing your {doc}`../addons/index` or contributing to the Volto core itself.


## Process and file structure overview

Volto uses the library [react-intl](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intl) to provide translations for any potential language.
Anything in the [official documentation of react-intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/) also applies to Volto.

The workflow for creating *new* translatable text strings is as follows:

1.  Create translatable i18n strings in your code.
1.  Extract all i18n strings from your code with a script and create artifacts, like `.po` and `.pot` files.
1.  Use your favorite editor to translate all i18n strings by editing the `.po` files.
1.  Re-run the script, which then moves the translations from the `.po` files into `.json` files for Volto to use.
1.  Edit [`packages/volto/src/constants/Languages.js`](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/constants/Languages.js), adding your new language's locale code, as defined in {ref}`i18n-l10n-locale-and-language-tag-conventions-label`.
1.  Run the unit tests as described in {ref}`run-jest-tests-on-volto-core-label`, following the prompt to update the snapshot when the test fails.

This way of organizing translations relies on [gettext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext), a proven and established system with great tool support.

All translation files are located under the directory [`packages/volto/locales`](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/main/packages/volto/locales).

The file {file}`packages/volto/locales/volto.pot` holds all extracted i18n strings, and acts as the source template for all the `.po` files.
A translation for each language is stored in two files, both with their language code in the file name or path.
Using English as an example, the `.po` file is stored at {file}`packages/volto/locales/en/LC_MESSAGES/volto.po`, and the `.json` file is stored at {file}`packages/volto/locales/en.json`.
The abridged file structure for English would appear as follows.

```text
locales/
├── en
│   └── LC_MESSAGES
│       └── volto.po
├── en.json
└── volto.pot
```


(create-i18n-strings)=

## Create i18n strings

In this section, you can learn how to translate HTML elements and attributes.


### Translate text in HTML elements

`react-intl` can identify translatable texts with the `FormattedMessage` components.
As the name of this component suggests, it's also possible to format your messages as your prefer.

The following code snippet is an example of how you can write a text with the content `Hello World`, which can be identified via `hello_world`.

```jsx
import { FormattedMessage } from 'react-intl';

function HelloWorld(props) {
  return (
    <div>
      <FormattedMessage
        id="hello_world"
        defaultMessage="Hello World"
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

The identifier `hello_world` is then commonly used across all the translations.
There are more features available, such as using placeholders.
See the documentation for all features in the [`FormattedMessage` component](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/components#formattedmessage).


### Translate attributes

As `FormatMessage` is only suitable for creating text within HTML elements, it cannot be used for translating individual attributes.
But with the method [`formatMessage`](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api/#formatmessage), there is another way to translate primitive strings.

This approach can be best explained with an example.
Assume you have a component called `TeaserImage` which contains an image that has, for accessibility reasons, the `alt` attribute.
To translate the `alt` attribute, you have to do the following steps:

1.  Import the following required methods.

    ```js
    import { defineMessages, injectIntl, intlShape } from 'react-intl';
    ```

2.  Define a message (or more) via [`defineMessages`](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api/#definemessagesdefinemessage):

    ```js
    const messages = defineMessages({
      teaserAltText: {
        id: 'teaser_alt_text',
        defaultMessage: 'Teaser Alt Text',
      },
    });
    ```

3.  Because your component class or function needs the method `formatMessage`, there is a special property `intl` that you need to inject in one of the two following ways.

    ```js
    // When using a pure function:
    export default injectIntl(TeaserImage);
    ```

    ```js
    // When using a component:
    @injectIntl
    class TeaserImage extends Component {
      // ...
    }
    ```

    Because you now have another prop available, you need to define it in the `propTypes`:

      ```jsx
      TeaserImage.propTypes = {
        intl: intlShape.isRequired,
        // ...
      };
      ```

4.  As the final last step, you can use the method as follows:

    ```jsx
    <img src="..." alt={intl.formatMessage(messages.teaserAltText)}>
    ```


## Extract i18n strings

Volto provides an i18n extraction script to get all translatable strings from your application.
You can invoke this script with the following command.

```sh
yarn i18n
```

This will generate the following output:

```console
Extracting messages from source files...
Synchronizing messages to pot file...
Synchronizing messages to po files...
Generating the json files...
done!
```

As the output suggests, it will first extract all messages from the source files into `.json` files.
Then it will synchronize the extracted messages with the `.pot` main template and with all the `.po` files found in the project.
This script will combine the messages located in Volto itself and the current project, and combine them into the `.json` files.


## Override i18n messages

If you want to override an existing translation, you should declare the original message again somewhere else in your project.
For example in `src/config.js`:

```js
import { defineMessages } from 'react-intl';

defineMessages({
  back: {
    id: 'Back',
    defaultMessage: 'Back',
  },
});
```

Then run `yarn i18n`.
You will find the translation ready to override in your `locales` directory, such as `locales/de/LC_MESSAGES/volto.po`.

```text
#: src/config
msgid "Back"
msgstr "My overridden translation"
```

After you set the override, then run `yarn i18n` again to create the `de.json` translation files.
Restart Volto to see the changes applied.

```{note}
Shadowed components do _not_ override translations.
99% of the time you do not want them to do that.
Thus the `customizations` folder is excluded from the i18n build.
```

## Contribute translations for an unsupported language

The Volto project welcomes all speakers from the world to include any language, which is not supported yet.

If your language's `.po` file is not available in Volto, [open an issue in GitHub](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues).
Either you can create the `.po` file or we can do it for you.
After that, you can start contributing your translations.

Commit message:

Add clarifying sentence about .json files

docs/source/development/i18n.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Internationalization (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts."
    "property=og:description": "Internationalization (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts."
    "property=og:title": "Internationalization"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, Blocks, Internationalization, i18n"
---

# Internationalization


{term}`Internationalization` (i18n) is the process of creating user interfaces which are suitable for different languages and cultural contexts.
This chapter describes the most common use cases for internationalization when developing your {doc}`../addons/index` or contributing to the Volto core itself.


## Process and file structure overview

Volto uses the library [react-intl](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intl) to provide translations for any potential language.
Anything in the [official documentation of react-intl](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/) also applies to Volto.

The workflow for creating *new* translatable text strings is as follows:

1.  Create translatable i18n strings in your code.
1.  Extract all i18n strings from your code with a script and create artifacts, like `.po` and `.pot` files.
1.  Use your favorite editor to translate all i18n strings by editing the `.po` files.
1.  Re-run the script, which then moves the translations from the `.po` files into `.json` files for Volto to use.
1.  Edit [`packages/volto/src/constants/Languages.js`](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/constants/Languages.js), adding your new language's locale code, as defined in {ref}`i18n-l10n-locale-and-language-tag-conventions-label`.
1.  Run the unit tests as described in {ref}`run-jest-tests-on-volto-core-label`, following the prompt to update the snapshot when the test fails.

This way of organizing translations relies on [gettext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext), a proven and established system with great tool support.
`.json` files in react-intl are equivalent to `.mo` files in gettext.

All translation files are located under the directory [`packages/volto/locales`](https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/main/packages/volto/locales).

The file {file}`packages/volto/locales/volto.pot` holds all extracted i18n strings, and acts as the source template for all the `.po` files.
A translation for each language is stored in two files, both with their language code in the file name or path.
Using English as an example, the `.po` file is stored at {file}`packages/volto/locales/en/LC_MESSAGES/volto.po`, and the `.json` file is stored at {file}`packages/volto/locales/en.json`.
The abridged file structure for English would appear as follows.

```text
locales/
├── en
│   └── LC_MESSAGES
│       └── volto.po
├── en.json
└── volto.pot
```


(create-i18n-strings)=

## Create i18n strings

In this section, you can learn how to translate HTML elements and attributes.


### Translate text in HTML elements

`react-intl` can identify translatable texts with the `FormattedMessage` components.
As the name of this component suggests, it's also possible to format your messages as your prefer.

The following code snippet is an example of how you can write a text with the content `Hello World`, which can be identified via `hello_world`.

```jsx
import { FormattedMessage } from 'react-intl';

function HelloWorld(props) {
  return (
    <div>
      <FormattedMessage
        id="hello_world"
        defaultMessage="Hello World"
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

The identifier `hello_world` is then commonly used across all the translations.
There are more features available, such as using placeholders.
See the documentation for all features in the [`FormattedMessage` component](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/components#formattedmessage).


### Translate attributes

As `FormatMessage` is only suitable for creating text within HTML elements, it cannot be used for translating individual attributes.
But with the method [`formatMessage`](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api/#formatmessage), there is another way to translate primitive strings.

This approach can be best explained with an example.
Assume you have a component called `TeaserImage` which contains an image that has, for accessibility reasons, the `alt` attribute.
To translate the `alt` attribute, you have to do the following steps:

1.  Import the following required methods.

    ```js
    import { defineMessages, injectIntl, intlShape } from 'react-intl';
    ```

2.  Define a message (or more) via [`defineMessages`](https://formatjs.io/docs/react-intl/api/#definemessagesdefinemessage):

    ```js
    const messages = defineMessages({
      teaserAltText: {
        id: 'teaser_alt_text',
        defaultMessage: 'Teaser Alt Text',
      },
    });
    ```

3.  Because your component class or function needs the method `formatMessage`, there is a special property `intl` that you need to inject in one of the two following ways.

    ```js
    // When using a pure function:
    export default injectIntl(TeaserImage);
    ```

    ```js
    // When using a component:
    @injectIntl
    class TeaserImage extends Component {
      // ...
    }
    ```

    Because you now have another prop available, you need to define it in the `propTypes`:

      ```jsx
      TeaserImage.propTypes = {
        intl: intlShape.isRequired,
        // ...
      };
      ```

4.  As the final last step, you can use the method as follows:

    ```jsx
    <img src="..." alt={intl.formatMessage(messages.teaserAltText)}>
    ```


## Extract i18n strings

Volto provides an i18n extraction script to get all translatable strings from your application.
You can invoke this script with the following command.

```sh
yarn i18n
```

This will generate the following output:

```console
Extracting messages from source files...
Synchronizing messages to pot file...
Synchronizing messages to po files...
Generating the json files...
done!
```

As the output suggests, it will first extract all messages from the source files into `.json` files.
Then it will synchronize the extracted messages with the `.pot` main template and with all the `.po` files found in the project.
This script will combine the messages located in Volto itself and the current project, and combine them into the `.json` files.


## Override i18n messages

If you want to override an existing translation, you should declare the original message again somewhere else in your project.
For example in `src/config.js`:

```js
import { defineMessages } from 'react-intl';

defineMessages({
  back: {
    id: 'Back',
    defaultMessage: 'Back',
  },
});
```

Then run `yarn i18n`.
You will find the translation ready to override in your `locales` directory, such as `locales/de/LC_MESSAGES/volto.po`.

```text
#: src/config
msgid "Back"
msgstr "My overridden translation"
```

After you set the override, then run `yarn i18n` again to create the `de.json` translation files.
Restart Volto to see the changes applied.

```{note}
Shadowed components do _not_ override translations.
99% of the time you do not want them to do that.
Thus the `customizations` folder is excluded from the i18n build.
```

## Contribute translations for an unsupported language

The Volto project welcomes all speakers from the world to include any language, which is not supported yet.

If your language's `.po` file is not available in Volto, [open an issue in GitHub](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues).
Either you can create the `.po` file or we can do it for you.
After that, you can start contributing your translations.
