.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/3_PLIP.md, before:

---
name: "\U0001F680 PLIP"
about: Plone Improvement Proposal
title: ''
labels: '03 type: feature (plip)'
assignees: ''
projects: 'plone/47'

---

## PLIP (Plone Improvement Proposal)

<!--

Read https://6.docs.plone.org/contributing/core/plips.html first!

Set "03 type: feature: plip" as label.

Mention the @plone/volto-team when the PLIP is information complete!

-->

## Responsible Persons

### Proposer: <!-- full NAME of the proposer, should lead the PLIP - if not possible, tell about it! -->

### Seconder: <!-- NAME of another person supporting this PLIP -->

## Abstract

<!-- a comprehensive overview of the subject -->

## Motivation

<!--
Reason or motivation this proposal was created
-->

## Assumptions

<!-- Preconditions -->

## Proposal & Implementation

<!--
Detailed proposal with implementation details and - if needed - possible variants to be discussed.
-->

## Deliverables

<!--
Packages and documentation chapters involved, includes also third party if needed.
-->

## Risks

<!--
What will break/ affect existing installations of Plone after upgrade, including end user point of view, training efforts etc.
-->

## Participants

<!--
list of persons and roles known
-->

Commit message:

Revise the existing issue templates and create a new one for PLIP tasks (#6683)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/3_PLIP.md, after:

---
name: "🚀 PLIP"
about: 'A Plone Improvement Proposal (PLIP) is a change to a Plone package that would affect everyone who uses that package. PLIPs go through a formal process compared to bug fixes because of their broad reach.'
title: ''
labels: '03 type: feature (plip)'
type: 'PLIP'
assignees: ''
projects: 'plone/47'
---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are not a member of the Volto Team or Developers Team in the Plone GitHub organization, then do not work on or comment on this issue.

## PLIP (Plone Improvement Proposal)

<!--

Read https://6.docs.plone.org/contributing/core/plips.html first!

Set "03 type: feature: plip" as label.

Mention the @plone/volto-team when the PLIP is information complete!

-->

## Responsible Persons

### Proposer: <!-- full NAME of the proposer, should lead the PLIP - if not possible, tell about it! -->

### Seconder: <!-- NAME of another person supporting this PLIP -->

## Abstract

<!-- a comprehensive overview of the subject -->

## Motivation

<!--
Reason or motivation this proposal was created
-->

## Assumptions

<!-- Preconditions -->

## Proposal & Implementation

<!--
Detailed proposal with implementation details and - if needed - possible variants to be discussed.
-->

## Deliverables

<!--
Packages and documentation chapters involved, includes also third party if needed.
-->

## Risks

<!--
What will break/ affect existing installations of Plone after upgrade, including end user point of view, training efforts etc.
-->

## Participants

<!--
list of persons and roles known
-->
