docs/source/configuration/how-to.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto has a centralized configuration registry used to parameterize Volto."
    "property=og:description": "Volto has a centralized configuration registry used to parameterize Volto."
    "property=og:title": "The configuration registry"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, configuration, registry"
---

# The configuration registry

Volto has a centralized {term}`configuration registry` used to parameterize Volto. It has the
form of a singleton that can be called and queried from anywhere in your code like this:

```js
import config from '@plone/volto/registry';
```

then access any of its internal configuration to retrieve the configuration you require
like:

```js
const absoluteUrl = `${config.settings.apiPath}/${content.url}`;
```

Both the main project and individual add-ons can extend Volto's configuration registry.
First the add-ons configuration is applied, in the order they are defined in
`package.json`, then finally the project configuration is applied. Visualized like
a pipe would be:

> Default Volto configuration -> Add-on 1 -> Add-on 2 -> ... -> Add-on n -> Project

Both use the same method, using a function as the default export. This function takes a
`config` and should return the `config` once you've ended your modifications. For
add-ons, it must be provided in the main `index.js` module of the add-on. For project's
it must be provided in the `src/config.js` module of the project.

See the {doc}`../addons/index` section for extended information on how to work with add-ons.

## Extending configuration in a project

You must provide a function as default export in your `src/config.js`:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    isMultilingual: true,
    supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
    defaultLanguage: 'de',
    navDepth: 3,
  };

  return config;
}
```

you have all Volto's default configuration and the already applied from your project's
add-ons configuration in `config` argument. Next, perform all the required modifications
to the config and finally, return the config object.

By reading Volto's
[src/config/index.js](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/config/index.js),
you'll get to see that Volto provides some default configuration objects
(`blocks`, `widgets`, `settings`, etc), passes them through the
`applyAddonConfiguration()` function, which allows any installed addons to
modify this configuration, then spreads and exports its configuration objects.
This allows Volto to work the same way in either standalone version (when
developing Volto itself), but also when used as a library, referenced from
a Volto project.

## settings

The `settings` object of the configruration registry is a big registry of miscellaneous settings.
See {doc}`settings-reference` for details.

## widgets

The `widgets` object holds the widget registry, used to decide which widget
should be used when rendering forms. Check [its
definition](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/config/Widgets.jsx)
but also the [lookup
mechanism](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/212026a39fd9aa0e1d6c324f967b51a3daa10b01/packages/volto/src/components/manage/Form/Field.jsx#L151)
to understand how things work.

See {doc}`../development/widget` for more information.

## views

The `views` registry allows configuration of the components that will be used
to render the content. There are 4 types of views:

- layout views, which are used based on the `layout` field of the incoming
  content. See {doc}`./settings-reference` for more information.
- content type views, registered view components per Plone content type
- the default view, which can render the composite page Volto blocks
- and the error views, to be used for regular error pages (Forbidden, Not
  Found, etc).

## blocks

The `blocks` registry holds the information of all the registered blocks in Volto. There are 4 configurations available:

- blocksConfig
- requiredBlocks
- groupBlocksOrder
- initialBlocks

See {doc}`../blocks/settings` for more information.

## addonReducers

In the `addonReducers` you can register and potentially override (by name) any
registered reducer from Volto or other loaded Volto addons.

## addonRoutes

The `addonRoutes` is a list of routes declaration, to be used as child
sub-routes for the App component. A route declaration looks like this (an
example):

```js
  {
    path: '/**/chat',
    component: Chat,
  }
```

The `addonRoutes` have a higher priority compared to the default routes, so you
can use them to override the existing routes, as well. See `src/routes.js` for
more details. In its configuration, an addon would push additional routes to
this data structure:

```js
config.addonRoutes.push({ path: '/**/chat', component: Chat });
```

## cookieExpires

According to the EU law on the management of the GDPR privacy and cookies, technical cookies must have a maximum expiration of 6 months.
For sites outside the European Union, the expiration could be different.
Expiration time is configurable in `config`, expressed in seconds:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    cookieExpires: 15552000, //in seconds. Default is 6 month (15552000)
  };

  return config;
}
```

## `nonContentRoutes` and `nonContentRoutesPublic`

`nonContentRoutes` is a list of routes reserved in Volto for its functionality as a content management system.
These functions include user authentication and registration, changing settings through control panels, generating a site map, and other functions.
Examples of these routes include `/login`, `/register`, and `/\/controlpanel\/.*$/`.
Editors can't use them for content.
The HTML attribute class value `cms-ui` is applied to members of `nonContentRoutes`.
You can configure `nonContentRoutes` with either a regular expression or a string representing the end of the URI.

`nonContentRoutesPublic` is a subset of `nonContentRoutes`.
These routes are used for public sections of a Volto site that do not require authentication.
This subset includes `/login`, `/search`, and `/sitemap`.

The following example shows how to configure settings for `nonContentRoutes` and `nonContentRoutesPublic`.

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    nonContentRoutes:[....],
    nonContentRoutesPublic: [....]
  };

  return config;
}
```

Commit message:

Create Volto Conceptual Guides, and move add-ons into its first entry

docs/source/configuration/how-to.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto has a centralized configuration registry used to parameterize Volto."
    "property=og:description": "Volto has a centralized configuration registry used to parameterize Volto."
    "property=og:title": "The configuration registry"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, configuration, registry"
---

# The configuration registry

Volto has a centralized {term}`configuration registry` used to parameterize Volto. It has the
form of a singleton that can be called and queried from anywhere in your code like this:

```js
import config from '@plone/volto/registry';
```

then access any of its internal configuration to retrieve the configuration you require
like:

```js
const absoluteUrl = `${config.settings.apiPath}/${content.url}`;
```

Both the main project and individual add-ons can extend Volto's configuration registry.
First the add-ons configuration is applied, in the order they are defined in
`package.json`, then finally the project configuration is applied. Visualized like
a pipe would be:

> Default Volto configuration -> Add-on 1 -> Add-on 2 -> ... -> Add-on n -> Project

Both use the same method, using a function as the default export. This function takes a
`config` and should return the `config` once you've ended your modifications. For
add-ons, it must be provided in the main `index.js` module of the add-on. For project's
it must be provided in the `src/config.js` module of the project.

See the {doc}`../conceptual-guides/add-ons` and {doc}`../development/add-ons/index` sections for extended information on how to work with add-ons.


## Extending configuration in a project

You must provide a function as default export in your `src/config.js`:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    isMultilingual: true,
    supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
    defaultLanguage: 'de',
    navDepth: 3,
  };

  return config;
}
```

you have all Volto's default configuration and the already applied from your project's
add-ons configuration in `config` argument. Next, perform all the required modifications
to the config and finally, return the config object.

By reading Volto's
[src/config/index.js](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/config/index.js),
you'll get to see that Volto provides some default configuration objects
(`blocks`, `widgets`, `settings`, etc), passes them through the
`applyAddonConfiguration()` function, which allows any installed addons to
modify this configuration, then spreads and exports its configuration objects.
This allows Volto to work the same way in either standalone version (when
developing Volto itself), but also when used as a library, referenced from
a Volto project.

## settings

The `settings` object of the configruration registry is a big registry of miscellaneous settings.
See {doc}`settings-reference` for details.

## widgets

The `widgets` object holds the widget registry, used to decide which widget
should be used when rendering forms. Check [its
definition](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/main/packages/volto/src/config/Widgets.jsx)
but also the [lookup
mechanism](https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/212026a39fd9aa0e1d6c324f967b51a3daa10b01/packages/volto/src/components/manage/Form/Field.jsx#L151)
to understand how things work.

See {doc}`../development/widget` for more information.

## views

The `views` registry allows configuration of the components that will be used
to render the content. There are 4 types of views:

- layout views, which are used based on the `layout` field of the incoming
  content. See {doc}`./settings-reference` for more information.
- content type views, registered view components per Plone content type
- the default view, which can render the composite page Volto blocks
- and the error views, to be used for regular error pages (Forbidden, Not
  Found, etc).

## blocks

The `blocks` registry holds the information of all the registered blocks in Volto. There are 4 configurations available:

- blocksConfig
- requiredBlocks
- groupBlocksOrder
- initialBlocks

See {doc}`../blocks/settings` for more information.

## addonReducers

In the `addonReducers` you can register and potentially override (by name) any
registered reducer from Volto or other loaded Volto addons.

## addonRoutes

The `addonRoutes` is a list of routes declaration, to be used as child
sub-routes for the App component. A route declaration looks like this (an
example):

```js
  {
    path: '/**/chat',
    component: Chat,
  }
```

The `addonRoutes` have a higher priority compared to the default routes, so you
can use them to override the existing routes, as well. See `src/routes.js` for
more details. In its configuration, an addon would push additional routes to
this data structure:

```js
config.addonRoutes.push({ path: '/**/chat', component: Chat });
```

## cookieExpires

According to the EU law on the management of the GDPR privacy and cookies, technical cookies must have a maximum expiration of 6 months.
For sites outside the European Union, the expiration could be different.
Expiration time is configurable in `config`, expressed in seconds:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    cookieExpires: 15552000, //in seconds. Default is 6 month (15552000)
  };

  return config;
}
```

## `nonContentRoutes` and `nonContentRoutesPublic`

`nonContentRoutes` is a list of routes reserved in Volto for its functionality as a content management system.
These functions include user authentication and registration, changing settings through control panels, generating a site map, and other functions.
Examples of these routes include `/login`, `/register`, and `/\/controlpanel\/.*$/`.
Editors can't use them for content.
The HTML attribute class value `cms-ui` is applied to members of `nonContentRoutes`.
You can configure `nonContentRoutes` with either a regular expression or a string representing the end of the URI.

`nonContentRoutesPublic` is a subset of `nonContentRoutes`.
These routes are used for public sections of a Volto site that do not require authentication.
This subset includes `/login`, `/search`, and `/sitemap`.

The following example shows how to configure settings for `nonContentRoutes` and `nonContentRoutesPublic`.

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    nonContentRoutes:[....],
    nonContentRoutesPublic: [....]
  };

  return config;
}
```
