docs/source/configuration/multilingual.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Install multilingual support to use Plone's multilingual feature"
    "property=og:description": "Install multilingual support to use Plone's multilingual feature"
    "property=og:title": "Multilingual"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, multilingual"
---

# Multilingual

Volto provide support for Plone's Multilingual feature. You need to install Multiligual
support in Plone (`plone.app.multilingual` add-on), that comes available by default since
Plone 5 and can be installed in Plone's control panel.

## Volto configuration

You need to enable multilingual in Volto's configuration object:

```js
import config from '@plone/volto/registry'

config.settings = {
  ...config.settings,
  isMultilingual: true,
  supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de', 'ca', 'pt-br'],
  defaultLanguage: 'en'
}
```

Declare the language you want to support in your site in the `supportedLanguages` array,
and which is the default language of your site.

```{warning}
The default language and the supported languages must match the one set in the Plone
side, and those should be set using GenericSetup using your policy package, or
manually via the Languages control panel, i.e. en for English, or pt-br for Portuguese (Brazil)
```

## Features

Volto Multilingual features include:

- Language detector that detects the language preference (cookie) and redirects to the related language root folder
- Language switcher that allows user to switch between languages
- Add menu entries that allows to create and link a new content with the original one in one of the supported languages set in the site
- When users use the language switcher to change language from a translated content, they are redirected to the linked content (within the same translation group)
- Manual link two objects (Manage translations link in More menu)
- Manual deletion of a link (unlink) between two objects (Manage translations link in More menu)

Commit message:

Set the `LANGUAGE` environment variable in the Docker backend (#6231)
Co-authored-by: David Glick <david@glicksoftware.com>

docs/source/configuration/multilingual.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Install multilingual support to use Plone's multilingual feature"
    "property=og:description": "Install multilingual support to use Plone's multilingual feature"
    "property=og:title": "Multilingual"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, multilingual"
---

# Multilingual

Volto provides support for Plone's multilingual feature through the Plone core add-on `plone.app.multilingual`.
It is included with Plone 5 and later.
You can enable it through the {guilabel}`Add-ons` control panel in the administrative interface.


## Volto configuration

You need to enable multilingual in Volto's configuration object.

```js
import config from '@plone/volto/registry'

config.settings = {
  ...config.settings,
  isMultilingual: true,
  supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de', 'ca', 'pt-br'],
  defaultLanguage: 'en'
}
```

Declare the language you want to support in your site in the `supportedLanguages` array, and which is the default language of your site.

```{warning}
The default language and the supported languages must match those set in the Plone backend.
Those should be set either using GenericSetup using your policy package or manually via the {guilabel}`Languages` control panel.
Examples include `en` for English, or `pt-br` for Portuguese (Brazil).
```

## Features

Volto multilingual includes the following features.

-   language detector that detects the language preference from a cookie, and redirects to the related language root folder
-   language switcher that allows the user to switch between languages
-   adds menu entries that allows to create and link a new content item with the original one in one of the supported languages set in the site
-   when users use the language switcher to change the language from a translated content, they are redirected to the linked content within the same translation group
-   manually link two objects via the {guilabel}`Manage translations` link under the {guilabel}`More` menu
-   manually delete a link (or unlink) between two objects ({guilabel}`Manage translations` link under the {guilabel}`More` menu)
