packages/registry/docs/index.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "@plone/registry provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps."
    "property=og:description": "@plone/registry provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps."
    "property=og:title": "@plone/registry"
    "keywords": "@plone/registry, registry, add-on, configuration, component, routes, React Router, utility, JavaScript, TypeScript, app"
---

# `@plone/registry`

`@plone/registry` provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps.

As a developer when you build an app, regardless of the framework and technologies used, it's a one-off app.
That means you have to build something that has very specific requirements, behavior, and look and feel.

Sometimes you need to build something generic that is pluggable and extensible.
In the JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystem, this is often quite complex, and the existing frameworks do not provide the means to do this.
`@plone/registry` helps developers extend their apps in a pluggable way.


```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:
:caption: How-to guides
how-to-guides/instantiate-registry
how-to-guides/register-an-add-on
how-to-guides/access-registry
how-to-guides/register-and-retrieve-components
how-to-guides/register-and-retrieve-utilities
how-to-guides/shadow-a-component
how-to-guides/register-routes
```


```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:
:caption: Conceptual guides
conceptual-guides/add-on-registry
conceptual-guides/configuration-registry
conceptual-guides/component-registry
conceptual-guides/utility-registry
```

Commit message:

[registry] Addons styles loader (#6630)
Co-authored-by: David Glick <david@glicksoftware.com>
Co-authored-by: Steve Piercy <web@stevepiercy.com>

packages/registry/docs/index.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "@plone/registry provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps."
    "property=og:description": "@plone/registry provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps."
    "property=og:title": "@plone/registry"
    "keywords": "@plone/registry, registry, add-on, configuration, component, routes, React Router, utility, JavaScript, TypeScript, app"
---

# `@plone/registry`

`@plone/registry` provides support for building an add-on and configuration registry with infrastructure for JavaScript and TypeScript-based apps.

As a developer when you build an app, regardless of the framework and technologies used, it's a one-off app.
That means you have to build something that has very specific requirements, behavior, and look and feel.

Sometimes you need to build something generic that is pluggable and extensible.
In the JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystem, this is often quite complex, and the existing frameworks do not provide the means to do this.
`@plone/registry` helps developers extend their apps in a pluggable way.


```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:
:caption: How-to guides
how-to-guides/instantiate-registry
how-to-guides/register-an-add-on
how-to-guides/access-registry
how-to-guides/register-and-retrieve-components
how-to-guides/register-and-retrieve-utilities
how-to-guides/shadow-a-component
how-to-guides/register-routes
```


```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:
:caption: Conceptual guides
conceptual-guides/add-on-registry
conceptual-guides/configuration-registry
conceptual-guides/component-registry
conceptual-guides/utility-registry
conceptual-guides/add-on-loader
conceptual-guides/add-on-styles-loader
```
