# Add-on Internationalization

Volto added add-on internationalization support since Volto 11.1.0 via an enhanced `src/i18n.js` script.
In case you can't upgrade to this version, you can still support it in your project, by backporting
it and add it into your project's workflow.

1. Copy over the updated https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/master/src/i18n.js script to your project, e.g `src/i18n.js`

2. Update your project's `package.json` to call it, instead of calling the inner Volto one.

```json
  "scripts": {
...
    "i18n": "NODE_ENV=production node src/i18n.js",
...
  }
```

## Add locales to your add-on

An specific `src/i18n.js` script has been added to the addon generator in order to do this task.
You can find it here:

https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/master/packages/generator-volto/generators/addon/templates/src/i18n.js

If you start over a new project and you have an up to date generator, generating a project will already
contain it.

If you have already an addon and you want to add internationalization to it:

1. Copy it over to your addon as `src/i18n.js`
2. Update your project's `package.json` to call it, instead of calling the inner Volto one.

```json
  "scripts": {
...
    "i18n": "NODE_ENV=production node src/i18n.js",
...
  }
```

3. Create an initial locales folder and create an empty .pot file like this one:
https://github.com/plone/volto/blob/master/packages/generator-volto/generators/addon/templates/locales/volto.pot


## Internationalization workflow

The internationalization workflow is the same as in main Volto, you develop your add-on, add the
translations to your code.

1. Run `yarn i18n` in the context of your add-on to generate the locales directory.
2. Go to each .po file in your locales folder and write the translations for each translation literal.

In the context of your project, run `yarn i18n` to merge the add-on translations with the ones
of your project.

## Override translations

The workflow allows to override translations from your project scope, so the project translations
"always win".
