docs/source/addons/public-folder.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Add-on public folder"
    "property=og:description": "How to add static served files to the build from an add-on"
    "property=og:title": "Define static served files"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, Semantic UI, CSS, Volto theme"
---

# Add-on `public` folder

In the Volto build, some static files are added to the build, and then served along with the build files.
These files are not touched, nor transformed by the build, served as-it-is in the root of the Volto site.
It is useful to define files like:

- robots.txt
- favicon files
- manifest files

and other files alike.

## Define a `public` folder in an add-on

Create a `public` folder in you add-on if it's not created yet, and add there the files you want to end up to the `public` folder build.
The build will copy over the files taking into account the add-ons defined order, being the first one the default static files defined by Volto, then following the add-on order, will copy the files, so the last one defined will win.

Commit message:

Apply doc suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Steve Piercy <web@stevepiercy.com>

docs/source/addons/public-folder.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to add static served files from your add-on to your build"
    "property=og:description": "How to add static served files to the build from an add-on"
    "property=og:title": "Add static files from your add-on to your build"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, Semantic UI, CSS, Volto theme, add-on, static, assets, files, build"
---

# Add static files from your add-on to your build

In the Volto build process, you can add static files to your build, then serve them along with the compiled files.
Static files are not transformed or compiled by the build process.
They are served as is from the root of the Volto site.
It is useful to define static files such as the following:

-   {file}`robots.txt`
-   favicon files
-   manifest files
-   any other static files


## Procedure to include static files

Create a folder named `public` at the root of your add-on, and add the static files to it.
The build process will copy the files, taking into account all add-ons' defined order.
The build process copies first the static files defined by Volto, then the static files from add-ons as defined by their configuration order.
The last defined file overwrites any previously defined files.
