# Upgrade Guide

This upgrade guide lists all breaking changes in Volto and explains the
 steps that are necessary to upgrade to the latest version.

!!! note
    There are times when updating the Volto boilerplate (the one generated by
    `@plone/generator-volto`) is enough to fulfill all the changes. If you haven't
    heavily modified it, moving things around and copying over your dependencies might
    do when dealing with upgrades. We keep the generator up to date and in sync with
    current Volto release. Please notice that the generator is able to tell you when it
    runs if it's outdated. The generator is also able to "update" your project with
    the latest changes, and propose to you to merge the changes, so you can run it on top of your project by answering the prompt.

## Upgrading to Volto 14.x.x

### Revisited rethought and refactored seamless mode

Seamless mode was released as experimental in Volto 13. However, after a period of testing some issues were detected so the feature has been rethought and refactored.

If you want to take full advantage of seamless mode you should upgrade your backend to the latest `plone.restapi` (8.12.1 or greater) and `plone.rest` (2.0.0a1 or greater) versions.

If you were already using Seamless mode in your deployments, you should update them as explained in the deployment documentation (link just below).

!!! warning
    The proxy in development mode will only work using the new traversal `++api++`. You need to upgrade your development environment to include the requirements explained above.

Read the full documentation about Seamless mode: https://docs.voltocms.com/deploying/seamless-mode/

### Update i18n configuration for projects and add-ons

The i18n script and infrastructure have been moved to their own package since we needed them
to be independent of Volto itself. This was necessary for being able to use them from the
add-ons without having to install the whole Volto package (which is not possible).

`@plone/scripts` package is the placeholder of the script, which has also been improved
alongside the infrastructure (Babel config) for it to run.

**Steps for migration**:

#### Projects

In a project's `package.json` replace the `scripts` `i18n` line with this one:

```diff
   "scripts": {
-    "i18n": "NODE_ENV=production node src/i18n.js"
+    "i18n": "rm -rf build/messages && NODE_ENV=production i18n"
+  },
```

#### Add-ons

If you are an add-on maintainer, remove the `src/i18n.js` script, since it's useless.
Within the `scripts` section of `package.json` apply the following change:

```diff
   "scripts": {
-    "i18n": "NODE_ENV=production node node_modules/@plone/volto/src/i18n.js",
+    "i18n": "rm -rf build/messages && NODE_ENV=production i18n --addon",
```


afterwards add this to the `dependencies` list:

```diff
+  "dependencies": {
+    "@plone/scripts": "*"
   }
```

Apply the following diff to `babel.config.js`:

```diff
-module.exports = require('@plone/volto/babel');
+module.exports = function (api) {
+  api.cache(true);
+  const presets = ['razzle/babel'];
+  const plugins = [
+    [
+      'react-intl', // React Intl extractor, required for the whole i18n infrastructure to work
+      {
+        messagesDir: './build/messages/',
+      },
+    ],
+  ];
+
+  return {
+    plugins,
+    presets,
+  };
+};
```

!!! note
    For convenience the `i18n` script is now an executable in the node environment.

### Removal of the old configuration system based on imports

As announced in the deprecation notice in Volto 12 release, from Volto 14 onwards, the old
configuration system based on imports will stop working. Migrate your Volto configuration
for your projects before upgrading to Volto 14.

More information: https://docs.voltocms.com/upgrade-guide/#volto-configuration-registry

### Content locking

Not really a breaking change, but it's worth noting it. By default, Volto 14 comes with
[content-locking](/configuration/locking) enabled, if the backend supports it. Thus:
* Upgrade Plone RestAPI:
    * **plone.restapi**>=`8.9.0` (Plone 5+)
    * **plone.restapi**>=`7.4.0` (Plone 4)
* Update `plone:CORSPolicy` to include `Lock-Token` within `allow_headers`:

```xml
  <plone:CORSPolicy
    allow_origin="http://localhost:3000,http://127.0.0.1:3000"
    allow_methods="DELETE,GET,OPTIONS,PATCH,POST,PUT"
    allow_credentials="true"
    expose_headers="Content-Length,X-My-Header"
    allow_headers="Accept,Authorization,Content-Type,X-Custom-Header,Origin,Lock-Token"
    max_age="3600"
    />
```

### Blocks chooser now uses the title instead of the id of the block as translation source

The `BlockChooser` component now uses the `title` of the block as source for translating
the block title. Before, it took the `id` of the block, which is utterly wrong and missleading. There is a chance that this change will trigger untranslated blocks titles in your projects and add-ons.

### Variation field now uses the title instead of the id of the variation as translation source

Following the same convention as the above change, `Variation` field coming from the block enhancers now uses the `title` of the block as source for translating
the variation title. Before, it took the `id` of the block, which as stated before, is wrong and missleading. There is a chance that  this change will trigger untranslated variation titles in your projects and add-ons.

### Listing block no longer retrieve fullobjects

The query used by the listing block always used the `fullobjects` flag, which fully serialized (and thus, wake from the db) the resultant response items. This was causing performance issues. From Volto 14, the results will get the normal catalog query metadata results. You'll need to adapt your code to get the appropiate data if required and/or use the metadata counterparts. If your code depends on this behavior and you don't have time to adapt now, there's a scape hatch: set the flag `bbb_listingBlockFetchesFullobjects` to `true` in the `settings` config object.

!!! note
      This feature needs at least `plone.restapi >= 8.13.0` and `plone.volto 3.1a4`. You need to update the catalog from your existing objects in your database, if you have already a production site in place, in order to have the new metadata filled in the catalog.

### New mobile navigation menu

The mobile navigation menu has been improved using a customizable `CSSTransition` group animation. It is a breaking change since this change introduces new classes and HTML to accomplish it. A new `NavItems` helper (presentational) component has been introduced as well. However, the API of the component hasn't changed so your customizations/shadowed components (if any) are safe. If you want to use the new stock menu and interaction, and you have customizations/shadowed components, you need to update them using the stock one.

### Adjusted main Logo component styling

In order to match the Plone logo and in lieu to use a better generic icon starting point, the `Logo.jsx` component and `.logo-nav-wrapper` styling have been adjusted. The logo is not constrained by default to `64px` and the wrapper now centers vertically. Please check that your project logo placeholder is still in good shape after upgrade.

## Upgrading to Volto 13.x.x

## Deprecating NodeJS 10

Since April 30th, 2021 NodeJS 10 is out of Long Term Support by the NodeJS community, so
we are deprecating it in Volto 13. Please update your projects to a NodeJS LTS version
(12 or 14 at the moment of this writing).

## Seamless mode is the default in development mode

Not really a breaking change, but it's worth noting it. By default, Volto 13 in
development mode uses the internal proxy in seamless mode otherwise configured
differently. To learn more about the seamless mode read: [Seamless mode](/deploying/seamless-mode)
and [zero configuration builds](/configuration/zero-config-builds)

## Refactored Listing block using schemas and ObjectWidget

The Listing block has been heavily refactored using schema forms and `BlockDataForm`
as well as the other new internal artifacts to leverage blocks variations and extensions at the same time
simplifying it.

Furthermore, the "More..." link it's now opt-in, instead of always-in. If your
projects rely on it, you should set the block setting
`config.blocks.blocksConfig.listing.showLinkMore` to `true`.

The advantage of this is that now you can use the `QuerystringWidget` with schema based
data forms in a reusable way in your custom blocks. See the Listing block code for
further references.

### Migrate your existing listing blocks

**(Updated: 2021/06/12)** If you have an existing Volto installation and you are using
listing blocks, you must run an upgrade step in order to match the new listing
internals. You can find this upgrade step in the `plone.volto` package. You can run
the step from there if you have installed `plone.volto` in your project, it's named
`Migrate listing blocks from Volto 12 to Volto 13`. You can find it in the `Add-ons`
control panel. Alternatively, you can transfer it to your own integration packages and
run it from there.

https://github.com/plone/plone.volto/blob/main/src/plone/volto/upgrades.py#L6-L64

```python
def from12to13_migrate_listings(context):
    def migrate_listing(originBlocks):
        blocks = deepcopy(originBlocks)
        for blockid in blocks:
            block = blocks[blockid]
            if block["@type"] == "listing":
                if block.get("template", False) and not block.get("variation", False):
                    block["variation"] = block["template"]
                    del block["template"]
                if block.get("template", False) and block.get("variation", False):
                    del block["template"]

                # Migrate to internal structure
                if not block.get("querystring", False):
                    # Creates if it is not created
                    block["querystring"] = {}
                if block.get("query", False) or block.get("query") == []:
                    block["querystring"]["query"] = block["query"]
                    del block["query"]
                if block.get("sort_on", False):
                    block["querystring"]["sort_on"] = block["sort_on"]
                    del block["sort_on"]
                if block.get("sort_order", False):
                    block["querystring"]["sort_order"] = block["sort_order"]
                    if isinstance(block["sort_order"], bool):
                        block["querystring"]["sort_order"] = (
                            "descending" if block["sort_order"] else "ascending"
                        )
                    else:
                        block["querystring"]["sort_order"] = block["sort_order"]
                    block["querystring"]["sort_order_boolean"] = (
                        True
                        if block["sort_order"] == "descending" or block["sort_order"]
                        else False
                    )
                    del block["sort_order"]
                if block.get("limit", False):
                    block["querystring"]["limit"] = block["limit"]
                    del block["limit"]
                if block.get("batch_size", False):
                    block["querystring"]["batch_size"] = block["batch_size"]
                    del block["batch_size"]
                if block.get("depth", False):
                    block["querystring"]["depth"] = block["depth"]
                    del block["depth"]

                # batch_size to b_size, idempotent
                if block["querystring"].get("batch_size", False):
                    block["querystring"]["b_size"] = block["querystring"]["batch_size"]
                    del block["querystring"]["batch_size"]

                print(f"Migrated listing in {obj.absolute_url()}")

        return blocks

    pc = api.portal.get_tool("portal_catalog")
    for brain in pc.unrestrictedSearchResults(object_provides=IBlocks.__identifier__):
        obj = brain.getObject()
        obj.blocks = migrate_listing(obj.blocks)
```

If you have trouble configuring the upgrade step in your own package, you can take a
look and configure it as in `plone.volto` as shown in this PR:
https://github.com/kitconcept/plone.volto/pull/29

!!! note
When an official integration package exists, these upgrade steps in the backend
will be provided in there.

### Update your custom variations (templates) in your project listing blocks

In the case that you have custom templates for your listing blocks in your projects, it's required that you update the definitions to match the new core variations syntax.

Going from this:

```js
config.blocks.blocksConfig.listing.templates = {
  ...config.blocks.blocksConfig.listing.templates,
  mycustomvariationid: {
    label: 'My custom listing variation',
    template: MyCustomListingBlockTemplate,
  }
}
```

To this:

```js
  config.blocks.blocksConfig.listing.variations = [
    ...config.blocks.blocksConfig.listing.variations,
    {
      id: 'mycustomvariationid',
      isDefault: false,
      title: 'My custom listing variation',
      template: MyCustomListingBlockTemplate,
    }
  ]
```

## Control panel icons are now SVG based instead of font based

It was long due, the control panel overview route `/controlpanel` is now using SVG icons
from the Pastanaga icon set, instead of the deprecated font ones. If you have customized
or created a control panel and you are using it in Volto, you should update it and use
the config registry setting: `controlPanelsIcons` and add the name of your control panel and the related SVG like:

```js
import myfancyiconSVG from '@plone/volto/icons/myfancyicon.svg';
import config from '@plone/volto/registry'

config.settings.controlPanelsIcons.mynewcontrolpanelid = myfancyiconSVG;
```

## Login form UI and accessibility updated

Not really a breaking change, but it's worth to note that we changed the look and feel of
the login form and improved its usability and accessibility. Another move towards the new
Quanta look and feel.

## Changes in the Table block feature set and messages

The "inverted" option in Table Block was removed since it was useless with the current
CSS set. Better naming of options and labels in table block (English). Updating the i18n
messages for the used translations is advisable, but not required.

## Upgrading to Volto 12.x.x

### Volto Configuration Registry

The configuration object in Volto is located in the `~/config` module and uses it as
container of Volto's config taking advantage of the ES6 module system. So we "import"
the config every time we need it, then the exported config data in that module
"magically" is there whenever we want to access to it.

It's been a while since we were experiencing undesired side effects from "circular import
dependency" problems in Volto, due to the very nature of the solution (importing the
`~/config`). Although they aren't very noticeable, they are there, waiting to bite
us. In fact, circular dependencies are common in NodeJS world, and the very nature of
how it works make them "workable" thanks to the NodeJS own import resolution algorithm.
So the "build" always works, although we have the circular dependencies, but that leads to weird problems
like (just to mention one of them) the HMR (Hot Module Reloader) not working properly.

That's why in this version we are introducing the new Volto's Configuration Registry.
It's a centralized singleton that is populated from the core config module and can be
modified by the add-ons and the project itself. The code, instead of using imports to get
it, imports the singleton and then access the proper registry key inside it (`settings`,
`blocks`, `views`, etc...)

### Changes in your code (and local customizations)

This was the old way:
```js
import { settings } from '~/config'
...

console.log(settings.apiPath)
...
```

and this is the new way:

```js
import config from '@plone/volto/registry'
...

console.log(config.settings.apiPath)
config.settings.isMultilingual = true
...
```

!!! warning Deprecation notice
The old way of using the import to get Volto's configuration will still be working as
long as you support it in your project `src/config` but it will be deprecated and
will stop working from *Volto 14* onwards.

It is *highly* advisable that you use the new configuration registry right away. Your
custom code (and Volto customizations using the shadowing engine) has to adapt to the
new way of reading the config from the new Volto's Configuration. However, it won't be
mandatory until Volto 14, leaving the community time to adapt their code and projects.

!!! tip Recommended for add-ons
If you are an add-on maintainer, and you migrate your add-on to be Volto 12 compatible,
it's recommended that you add it as `peerDependencies` for Volto 12.

    ```json
      "peerDependencies": {
        "@plone/volto": ">=12.0.0"
      }
    ```

#### Changes in your project's `routes` module

```diff
--- a/src/routes.js
+++ b/src/routes.js
@@ -5,7 +5,7 @@

 import { App } from '@plone/volto/components';
 import { defaultRoutes } from '@plone/volto/routes';
-import { addonRoutes } from '~/config';
+import config from '@plone/volto/registry';

 /**
  * Routes array.
@@ -18,7 +18,7 @@ const routes = [
     component: App, // Change this if you want a different component
     routes: [
       // Add your routes here
-      ...(addonRoutes || []),
+      ...(config.addonRoutes || []),
       ...defaultRoutes,
     ],
   },
```

#### Changes in your project's `config` module

Remove the imports and the exports in your `src/config.js`:

```diff
--- a/src/config.js
+++ b/src/config.js
@@ -12,30 +12,11 @@
  * }
  */

-import {
-  settings as defaultSettings,
-  views as defaultViews,
-  widgets as defaultWidgets,
-  blocks as defaultBlocks,
-  addonReducers as defaultAddonReducers,
-  addonRoutes as defaultAddonRoutes,
-} from '@plone/volto/config';
+import '@plone/volto/config';

-export const settings = {
-  ...defaultSettings,
-};
-
-export const views = {
-  ...defaultViews,
-};
-
-export const widgets = {
-  ...defaultWidgets,
-};
-
-export const blocks = {
-  ...defaultBlocks,
-};
-
-export const addonRoutes = [...defaultAddonRoutes];
-export const addonReducers = { ...defaultAddonReducers };
```

notice from the diff, that you must add this import *AFTER* all your imports:

```js
// All your imports required for the config here BEFORE this line
import '@plone/volto/config';
```

Then add this function as default export at the end of your `src/config.js` module:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  // Add here your project config
  return config;
}
```

It has the same signature, and it's used like the `applyConfig()` function in `index.js`
module add-ons. You should place your project's configuration here and mutate the config
like you would do it in add-ons.

Let's show it in an example. Let's say you have this config in your project's `src/config` module:

```js
export const settings = {
  ...defaultSettings,
  isMultilingual: true,
  supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
  defaultLanguage: 'de',
  navDepth: 3,
};
```

then you'll add the `applyConfig()` function as default export and copy that settings key in it:

```js
export default function applyConfig(config) {
  config.settings = {
    ...config.settings,
    isMultilingual: true,
    supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
    defaultLanguage: 'de',
    navDepth: 3,
  };
  return config;
}
```

!!! warning
The add-ons you might be using might need to migrate to use the new
configuration registry too. Make sure all of them are already migrated to Volto 12.

!!! tip
Although this might be daunting, the migration is quite straightforward, and the refactoring
of the required code can be undergone through a series of "search and replace" in your IDE of choice.

#### Changes in your project's `package.json`

You need to update the `setupFiles` key of your `jest` configuration:

```diff
     "setupFiles": [
-      "@plone/volto/test-setup.js"
+      "@plone/volto/test-setup-globals.js",
+      "@plone/volto/test-setup-config.js"
     ],
```

#### Changes in snapshots tests in your project

Please note that your tests' snapshots will also change because of the new testing mocks
(in widgets, blocks and in views). You should review them, make sure that the mocks are
there instead of the real mocked components and accept them.

### Alternative - both configurations coexisting

!!! warning
This configuration is *not recommended* and might lead to inconsistencies and has been tested
only partially and can you can find unseen problems. This method is only a workaround in case the
add-ons you are using are not yet migrated, or you can't migrate your code. And in
any case, as stated above, it will be deprecated and will stop working in Volto 14.

Make the following changes to your `src/config.js`, first remove the main imports, and add
the import to the new config registry:

```diff
-import {
-  settings as defaultSettings,
-  views as defaultViews,
-  widgets as defaultWidgets,
-  blocks as defaultBlocks,
-  addonReducers as defaultAddonReducers,
-  addonRoutes as defaultAddonRoutes,
-} from '@plone/volto/config';
+import ConfigRegistry from '@plone/volto/registry';
```

then *after the last existing import* in your existing `src/config.js` add:

```js
import * as voltoDefaultConfig from '@plone/volto/config';
```

Remove all the default exports, but save your config for later use:

```diff
-export const settings = {
-  ...defaultSettings,
-};
-
-export const views = {
-  ...defaultViews,
-};
-
-export const widgets = {
-  ...defaultWidgets,
-};
-
-export const blocks = {
-  ...defaultBlocks,
-};
-
-export const addonRoutes = [...defaultAddonRoutes];
-export const addonReducers = { ...defaultAddonReducers };
```

showing in the diff the default ones, you should have your configuration inside those, like:

```js
export const settings = {
  ...defaultSettings,
  isMultilingual: true,
  supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
  defaultLanguage: 'de',
  navDepth: 3,
};
```

At the end of your `src/config.js`:

```diff
+const localconfig = {
+  ...voltoDefaultConfig,
+};
+
+const applyLocalConfig = applyConfig(localconfig);
+
+ConfigRegistry.settings = applyLocalConfig.settings;
+ConfigRegistry.blocks = applyLocalConfig.blocks;
+ConfigRegistry.views = applyLocalConfig.views;
+ConfigRegistry.widgets = applyLocalConfig.widgets;
+ConfigRegistry.addonRoutes = applyLocalConfig.addonRoutes;
+ConfigRegistry.addonReducers = applyLocalConfig.addonReducers;
+
+export const settings = applyLocalConfig.settings;
+export const blocks = applyLocalConfig.blocks;
+export const views = applyLocalConfig.views;
+export const widgets = applyLocalConfig.widgets;
+export const addonRoutes = applyLocalConfig.addonRoutes;
+export const addonReducers = applyLocalConfig.addonReducers;
```

Migrate your config to the new config registry style, **but not** as a default export, at
the end of `src/config.js`:

```diff
+function applyConfig(config) {
+  config.settings = {
+    ...config.settings,
+    isMultilingual: true,
+    supportedLanguages: ['en', 'de'],
+    defaultLanguage: 'de',
+    navDepth: 3,
+  };
```

!!! note Recommendation
    Although you can keep both ways of using Volto's config it is
    recommended you use the new registry based configuration as soon as possible, as we
    discourage you to continue using the old way.


## Upgrading to Volto 11.x.x

### AlignBlock component new placement and import path

Due to problems with circular dependencies, the `AlignBlock` was moved to helpers and used from there.
Unfortunately, it was proven to be worse overall. We moved it (with a known workaround) to its rightful place again.

If your code is importing it from helpers, you should update it to the new path:

```diff
- import { AlignBlock } from '@plone/volto/helpers';
+ import AlignBlock from '@plone/volto/components/manage/Sidebar/AlignBlock';
```

### id is removed from FormFieldWrapper

We have removed the id from the FormFieldWrapper because it coincides with the label id if we don't provide the fieldset.

If you have cypress tests which depends on this id then just remove the id from the test and if the test fails then just add `.react-select-container` instead of your id. See https://github.com/plone/volto/pull/2102 for more details.

### New Default Listing Template

!!! note
    If you have customized the default listing template this change possibly does not have an effect on your project.

The default Template for the Listing Block now no longer contains an image. The old default Template has been renamed to "Summary". This will lead to every Listing Block in your Project that uses the default Template to now use the new default Template, and thus, no longer showing the image.

To resolve this you can change the template of the affected Listing Blocks either manually or by writing a backend script for that.

## Upgrading to Volto 10.x.x

### Remove the Razzle plugins patch

!!! warning
If you haven't upgraded your project to Volto 9.x.x and followed the upgrade guide
instructions, you are set, and you do not need to do anything.

In order to have support for Razzle plugins as local modules we introduced a patch in
9.0.0 that addressed the lack of support in Razzle 3.3.7 . Unfortunately, not only did that
introduced more headaches than benefits, but inadvertently we introduced a bug on the
patch. We've found a workaround to still support plugins as local modules without
patching Razzle, however that forces you to delete the patch introduced in your projects
if you followed the 9.x.x upgrade guide steps.

### getContent changes

The content is no longer fetched from Volto with the `fullobjects` flag in the
request. If your code relied on children being fully serialized with their
parent, you should refactor it. Alternatively, you can set
`settings.bbb_getContentFetchesFullobjects` to `true` to get the old behavior.

### `@testing-library/react` upgrade notice

`@testing-library/react` has been upgraded too, and it comes with some internal API
changes too, so if you make heavy use of it in your tests, you might need to update your
testing code to adapt to the changes. Please refer to the `@testing-library/react` documentation for further information if needed.

## Upgrading to Volto 9.x.x

### Internal upgrade to use Razzle 3.3.7

!!!note
If you haven't customized your `razzle.config.js` in your project, or have any
custom plugin in place, you don't have to do anything.

Razzle is the isometric build system for both the server and the client parts on top
of which Volto is built. Recently, it has been under heavy development and some new
exciting features have been added to it. The Razzle configuration is now more flexible
and extensible than ever.

This change *might* be breaking for you if you customized the `razzle.config.js` heavily
in your projects. Since the new version adds a new way to extend Razzle configuration,
you should adapt your extensions to the new way of doing it. See the documentation for
more information: https://razzlejs.org/docs/customization#extending-webpack

It also unifies the way things are extended in Razzle plugins as well, so if you are
using any official or third party Razzle plugins you should upgrade them to the latest
version. If you have developed your own Razzle plugin, you should adapt its signature as
well. See the documentation for more information:
https://razzlejs.org/docs/customization#plugins

Razzle 3.3 also has some new *experimental* features, that will be default in the
upcoming Razzle 4, such as the new *React Fast Refresh* feature, which fixes the
annoying breaking of the router after any live refresh.

See the documentation of Razzle for more information: https://razzlejs.org/

#### Changes involved

We need to patch an internal Razzle utility in order to allow the use of non-released
Razzle plugins. This feature will be in Razzle 4, unfortunatelly at this point the
development of the Razzle 3 branch is freezed already, so we need to amend the original
using the patch. The patch will be obsolete and no longer required once we move to
Razzle 4 (see https://github.com/jaredpalmer/razzle/pull/1467).

!!! note
    Since Volto 9.2.0 the next step IS NOT required anymore.

~~Copy (and overwrite) the `patches` folder into your local project
https://github.com/plone/volto/tree/master/patches or, if you want to be more accurate,
just copy `patches/razzle-plugins.patch` file and overwrite `patches/patchit.sh` file.~~

### Babel config housekeeping

Historically, Volto was using "stage-0" TC-39 proposals. The configuration was starting
to show its age, since Babel 7 decided to stop maintaining the presets for stages, we
moved to use a static configuration instead of a managed one. That lead to a "living on
the edge" situation since we supported proposals that didn't make the cut. For more
information about the TC39 approval process read (https://tc39.es/process-document/)

We decided to put a bit of order to the chaos and declare that Volto will support only
stage-4 approved proposals. They are supported by `@babel/preset-env` out of the box and
provide a good sensible default baseline for Volto.

Proposal deprecations:

- @babel/plugin-proposal-decorators
- @babel/plugin-proposal-function-bind
- @babel/plugin-proposal-do-expressions
- @babel/plugin-proposal-logical-assignment-operators
- @babel/plugin-proposal-pipeline-operator
- @babel/plugin-proposal-function-sent

In fact, Volto core only used the first one (decorators) and we made the move to not use
them anymore a long time ago. However, if you were using some of the other presets, your code will stop
compiling. Migrate your code or if you want to use the proposal anyways, you'll need to
provide the configuration to your own project (babel.config.js) in your project root
folder.

You might still be using the old-style connecting of your components to the Redux store using
`@connect` decorator, in that case, take a look at any connected component in Volto to
have a glimpse on how to migrate the code.

If you were not using any of the deprecated proposals (the most common use case), then
you are good to go, and you don't have to do anything.

### Hoisting problems on some setups

Some people were experimenting weird hoisting issues when installing dependencies. This
was caused by Babel deprecated proposals packages and its peer dependencies that
sometimes conflicted with other installed packages.

Volto's new Babel configuration uses the configuration provided by `babel-razzle-preset`
package (Razzle dependency) and delegates the dependencies management to it, except a
few Babel plugins that Volto still needs to work.

In order for your projects not have any problem with the new configuration and comply
with the new model, you need to remove any local dependency on `@babel/core` and let
Volto handle them.

```diff
diff --git a/package.json b/package.json
--- a/package.json
+++ b/package.json
@@ -183,7 +183,6 @@
     "node": "^10 || ^12 "
   },
   "dependencies": {
-    "@babel/core": "7.11.1",
     "@plone/volto": "8.9.2",
     "mrs-developer": "1.2.0",
```

### Recomended `browserslist` in `package.json`

Not a breaking change, but you might want to narrow the targets your Volto project is
targeting. This might improve your build times, as well as your bundle size. This is
the recommended `browserlist` you should include in your local `package.json`.

```json
  "browserslist": [
    ">1%",
    "last 4 versions",
    "Firefox ESR",
    "not ie 11",
    "not dead"
  ],
```

!!! note
    Please notice that it does not target dead and deprecated browsers by its vendors.

### New webpack resolver plugin

A new webpack resolver plugin has been integrated with Volto, it reroutes
'local' resolve requests (for example `import Something from './Something'`) to
'absolute' resolve requests (like
`import Something from '@plone/myaddon/Something`). This allows the
shadow-based customization mechanisms to work consistently with add-ons and
Volto.

This is not a breaking change, and it shouldn't affect any existing code, but by
its very nature, a resolver plugin has the potential to introduce unexpected
behavior. Just be aware of its existence and take it into consideration if you
notice anything strange.

### Content Types icons

Helper method `getIcon` from `Url` has been removed in favor of `getContentIcon`
from `Content` which is now configurable.

See [contentIcons docs](../configuration/settings-reference.md#contenticons).

## Upgrading to Volto 8.x.x

### Upgrade package.json testing configuration

The `dummy-addons-loader.js` file has been renamed to `jest-addons-loader.js`,
to be more in line with the rest of the existing files. You should add the
following value to the `moduleNameMapper` property of the `jest` key in your
project's package.json:

```
"load-volto-addons": "<rootDir>/node_modules/@plone/volto/jest-addons-loader.js",
```

## Upgrading to Volto 7.x.x

A misspelled file has been renamed. If you import `strickthrough.svg` in your
project, you'll now find that file at `@plone/volto/icons/strikethrough.svg`.

### New webpack resolve alias for Volto themes

As a "nice to have", a new resolve alias is provided that points to Volto's
theme folder. So, in your project's `theme.config` file, you can replace:

```less
@themesFolder: '../../node_modules/@plone/volto/theme/themes';
@siteFolder: "../../theme";
@fontPath : "../../@{theme}/assets/fonts";
```
with:

```less
@themesFolder: '~volto-themes';
@siteFolder: '~@package/../theme';
@fontPath: "~volto-themes/@{theme}/assets/fonts";
```

You might consider moving your theme files to a subfolder called `site`, to
prepare for the arrival of add-ons theming and their overrides.  In that case,
you would set your `@siteFolder` to:

```
@siteFolder: '~@package/../theme/site';
```

## Upgrading to Volto 6.x.x

First, update the `package.json` of your Volto project to Volto 6.x.x.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    "@plone/volto": "6.0.0",
    ...
  }
```

!!! note
    This release includes a number of changes to the internal dependencies. If you have problems building your project, you might need to remove your `node_modules` and, ultimately, also remove your `yarn.lock` file. Then run again `yarn` for rebuilding the dependencies.

### Upgrade to Node 12

We have now dependencies that requires `node >=10.19.0`. Although Node 10 has still LTS
"maintenance" treatment (see https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) the recommended path
is that you use from now on node 12 which is LTS since last October.

### New Razzle version and related development dependencies

The underlying Razzle package has been upgraded, and although that doesn't bring any
changes in Volto itself, a lot of development dependencies have been upgraded, and they should be updated in your local projects as well. Might be that the builds will continue working if you don't update them, but it's better for you to do so for a better development experience.

### Upgrade local dependencies versions

You need to update `devDependencies` in `package.json` in your local environment:

```json
  "devDependencies": {
    "eslint-plugin-prettier": "3.1.3",
    "prettier": "2.0.5",
    "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order": "8.1.0",
    "stylelint-config-prettier": "8.0.1",
    "stylelint-prettier": "1.1.2",
  }
```

and remove entirely the `resolutions` key:

```json
  "resolutions": {
    "@plone/volto/razzle/webpack-dev-server": "3.2.0"
  }
```

### Update `package.json` config

Add this key to the `jest.moduleNameMapper`:

```json
"jest":
  "moduleNameMapper": {
    "@plone/volto/babel": "<rootDir>/node_modules/@plone/volto/babel",
    ...
  }
```

because the new version of Jest is a bit more picky when importing externals. Attention, this mapping needs to be the first, it needs to come before the ``@plone/volto/(.*)$`` key.

### Prettier

Prettier has been updated, introducing some breaking formatting changes. It's recommended that you upgrade your local version of `prettier` and reformat your code with it using:

`yarn prettier:fix`

### Stylelint

`stylelint` has been upgraded too, and it introduces some changes in the declaration
of the styles order. It's recommended that you upgrade your local version of `prettier` and reformat your code with it using:

`yarn stylelint:fix`

### CSS modules are not supported anymore

Razzle does not support them anymore, so neither do we. If you need them, you could add
a Webpack config in your local `razzle.config.js`.

### Update your eslint config

Introduced in the Volto 5 series, it's recommended that you update your local ESLint config. In the past, we used `.eslintrc` file to do so. In order to support automatically Volto add-ons, you should remove it and use a JS based config named `.eslintrc.js` with this content:

```js
const path = require('path');
const projectRootPath = path.resolve('.');
const packageJson = require(path.join(projectRootPath, 'package.json'));

// Extends ESlint configuration for adding the aliases to `src` directories in Volto add-ons
const addonsAliases = [];
if (packageJson.addons) {
  const addons = packageJson.addons;
  addons.forEach(addon => {
    const addonPath = `${addon}/src`;
    addonsAliases.push([addon, addonPath]);
  });
}

module.exports = {
  extends: './node_modules/@plone/volto/.eslintrc',
  settings: {
    'import/resolver': {
      alias: {
        map: [
          ['@plone/volto', '@plone/volto/src'],
          ...addonsAliases,
          ['@package', './src'],
        ],
        extensions: ['.js', '.jsx', '.json'],
      },
      'babel-plugin-root-import': {
        rootPathSuffix: 'src',
      },
    },
  },
};
```

### New wrappers in block editor

We have improved the overall UX of the block drag and drop feature by using the library
`react-beautiful-dnd` in the block editor. It introduces new wrappers (belonging to the
lib machinery) in the structure. The original structure and class names are still in
there (as children of these wrappers) to maintain maximum backwards compatibility. Those
might be cleaned up in next major versions, so if for some reason you have customized
the styling of your blocks in edit mode relying on the old structure, you might want to
review and adapt them.

### Update `config.js`

!!! note
    This is required since Volto version 6.1.0 [1541](https://github.com/plone/volto/pull/1541)

Add these lines of code to the `config.js` of your project:

```js
import {
  addonRoutes as defaultAddonRoutes,
  addonReducers as defaultAddonReducers,
} from '@plone/volto/config';

export const addonRoutes = [...defaultAddonRoutes];
export const addonReducers = { ...defaultAddonReducers };
```

Update the `routes.js` of your project:

```js
import { addonRoutes } from '~/config';

const routes = [
  {
    path: '/',
    component: App, // Change this if you want a different component
    routes: [
      // Add your routes here
      ...(addonRoutes || []),
      ...defaultRoutes,
    ],
  },
];
```

## Upgrading to Volto 5.x.x

First, update the `package.json` of your Volto project to Volto 5.x.x.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    "@plone/volto": "5.0.0",
    ...
  }
```

### New lazy loading boilerplate

Volto is now capable of splitting and lazy loading components. This allows for better
performance and reduced bundle sizes, the client also has to parse and load less code,
improving the user experience, especially on mobile devices.

The boilerplate includes changes in the structural foundation of Volto itself. So if you
have updated in your projects any of these components:

- `src/helpers/Html/Html.jsx`
- `src/components/theme/App/App.jsx`
- `src/server.jsx`
- `src/client.jsx`

you should adapt them to the newest changes in Volto source code. You can do that by
diffing the new ones with your versions.

### Testing lazy loaded components

The whole process has been designed to have a minimal impact in existing projects.
However, only one thing should be changed in your components tests, especially if your components are composed of original Volto components (not SemanticUI ones, though).

You should adapt them by mocking the Volto component or resolve (await) in an
async construction before the test is fired. See this Codepen example:

https://codesandbox.io/s/loadable-async-tests-l2bx9

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { render } from "@testing-library/react";
import App from "./App";
import { Component1, Component2 } from "./components";

describe("CustomComponent", () => {
  it("rendered lazily", async () => {
    const { container, getByText } = render(<App />);

    await Component1;
    await Component2;

    expect(container.firstChild).toMatchSnapshot();
    expect(getByText("Component1"));
    expect(getByText("Component2"));
  });
```

There is also another pattern used in Volto core for testing you can transform your test
to be async aware like this:

```diff
--- a/src/components/manage/Preferences/PersonalPreferences.test.jsx
+++ b/src/components/manage/Preferences/PersonalPreferences.test.jsx
@@ -3,6 +3,7 @@ import renderer from 'react-test-renderer';
 import { Provider } from 'react-intl-redux';
 import configureStore from 'redux-mock-store';
 import { MemoryRouter } from 'react-router-dom';
+import { wait } from '@testing-library/react';

 import PersonalPreferences from './PersonalPreferences';

@@ -13,7 +14,7 @@ jest.mock('react-portal', () => ({
 }));

 describe('PersonalPreferences', () => {
-  it('renders a personal preferences component', () => {
+  it('renders a personal preferences component', async () => {
     const store = mockStore({
       intl: {
         locale: 'en',
@@ -36,7 +37,8 @@ describe('PersonalPreferences', () => {
         </MemoryRouter>
       </Provider>,
     );
-    const json = component.toJSON();
-    expect(json).toMatchSnapshot();
+    await wait(() => {
+      expect(component.toJSON()).toMatchSnapshot();
+    });
   });
 });
```

### Helmet title it's now centralized in `View.jsx`

All the calls for updating the title in the document performed by `Helmet` are now
centralized in the `View.jsx` components. It's recommended to remove all the Helmet
calls for updating the title from your components especially if you are using some
SEO add-ons for Volto, since not doing that could interfere with them.

## Upgrading to Volto 4.x.x

First, update your `package.json` to Volto 4.x.x.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    "@plone/volto": "4.0.0",
    ...
  }
```

### New initial blocks per content type setting in Alpha 37

Not a breaking change, but now there's a new setting in Blocks, `initialBlocks` where you can define the initial blocks for all content types. You can override the default ('title' and a 'text' block) and provide your own by modifying the configuration object:

```js
const initialBlocks = {
    Document: ['leadimage', 'title', 'text', 'listing' ]
};
```

provide an empty object if you don't want to define any additional initial blocks and keep the default.

```js
const initialBlocks = {};
```

### ImageSidebar moved to Image Block directory in Alpha 29

For better resource grouping, the `ImageSidebar` component has been moved to the `Image` block component directory: `components/manage/Blocks/Image`

### Copy `yarn.lock` from volto-starter-kit in Alpha 17

Due to changes in the dependency tree, it's required to use a specific `yarn.lock` file by deleting it and copy the one here: https://github.com/plone/volto-starter-kit/blob/master/yarn.lock before upgrading to Volto alpha 17.

### Forked Helmet into Volto core

Due to the inactivity of the Helmet project, we decided to fork it to the core. It's part of the Volto helpers now. You have to update your imports accordingly. Please notice that now it's a named import:

```diff
--- a/src/components/Views/ReportView.jsx
+++ b/src/components/Views/ReportView.jsx
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 import React from 'react';
 import PropTypes from 'prop-types';
-import Helmet from 'react-helmet';
+import { Helmet } from '@plone/volto/helpers';
 import { defineMessages, injectIntl, FormattedMessage } from 'react-intl';
 import { format, parse } from 'date-fns';
 import { filter, map } from 'lodash';
```

### Alpha 16 is a brownbag release

There was a problem with the projects using Volto eslint config when upgrading to the latest versions related to typescript, we will take of that in the near future. So skip this version.

### Stylelint and prettier config in Alpha 14

In your project's boilerplate, you need to update the stylelint and prettier configuration accordingly to the changes made in Alpha 14 in `package.json` like this:

```diff
diff --git a/package.json b/package.json
index 7c8194c..5c63469 100644
--- a/package.json
+++ b/package.json
@@ -46,26 +46,51 @@
   },
   "prettier": {
     "trailingComma": "all",
-    "singleQuote": true
+    "singleQuote": true,
+    "overrides": [
+      {
+        "files": "*.overrides",
+        "options": {
+          "parser": "less"
+        }
+      }
+    ]
   },
   "stylelint": {
     "extends": [
-      "stylelint-config-standard",
-      "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order",
-      "./node_modules/prettier-stylelint/config.js"
-    ]
+      "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order"
+    ],
+    "plugins": [
+      "stylelint-prettier"
+    ],
+    "rules": {
+      "prettier/prettier": true,
+      "rule-empty-line-before": [
+        "always-multi-line",
+        {
+          "except": [
+            "first-nested"
+          ],
+          "ignore": [
+            "after-comment"
+          ]
+        }
+      ]
+    },
+    "ignoreFiles": "theme/themes/default/**/*.overrides"
   },
   "engines": {
     "node": "^10 || ^12"
   },
   "dependencies": {
-    "@plone/volto": "4.0.0-alpha.10"
+    "@plone/volto": "4.0.0-alpha.14"
   },
   "devDependencies": {
     "eslint-plugin-prettier": "3.0.1",
-    "postcss-overrides": "3.1.4",
-    "prettier": "1.17.0",
-    "prettier-stylelint": "0.4.2"
+    "prettier": "1.19.1",
+    "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order": "6.2.0",
+    "stylelint-config-prettier": "6.0.0",
+    "stylelint-prettier": "1.1.1"
   },
   "resolutions": {
     "@plone/volto/razzle/webpack-dev-server": "3.2.0"
```

!!! note
    If you are linting actively your project, the build might be broken after this update. You should run:
```
$ yarn prettier:fix
$ yarn stylelint:fix
```
then commit the changes.

### openObjectBrowser API change in Alpha 11

The API of the `ObjectBrowser` component changed in alpha 11 to make it more flexible.
In case you had custom blocks using it, you have to update the call in case you were using a `link` mode:

```diff
@@ -42,7 +42,7 @@ const OtherComp = ({
                     href: '',
                   });
                 }
-              : () => openObjectBrowser('link')
+              : () => openObjectBrowser({ mode: 'link' })
           }
           onChange={(name, value) => {
             onChangeBlock(block, {
```

See the [blocks section](../blocks/editcomponent.md#openobjectbrowser-handler-api) for more details.

### Renaming Tiles into Blocks

An internal renaming to use the term `Blocks` everywhere was done to unify naming through the code and the documentation.

Plone RESTAPI was updated for that purpose too, and running an upgrade step (do so in Plone's Addons control panel) is required in order to migrate the data. No step is required if you are using a brand-new ZODB.

This is the version compatibility table across all the packages involved:

Volto 4 - plone.restapi >= 5.0.0 - kitconcept.voltodemo >= 2.0

!!! note
    The renaming happened in Volto 4 alpha.10 and plone.restapi 5.0.0. Volto 4 alpha versions under that release use older versions of `plone.restapi` and `kitconcept.voltodemo`, however if you are using alpha releases it's recommended to upgrade to the latest alpha or the final release of Volto 4.

The project configuration should also be updated, in your `src/config.js`:

```diff
diff --git a/src/config.js b/src/config.js
index f1fe9c2..9517c38 100644
--- a/src/config.js
+++ b/src/config.js
@@ -16,7 +16,7 @@ import {
   settings as defaultSettings,
   views as defaultViews,
   widgets as defaultWidgets,
-  tiles as defaultTiles,
+  blocks as defaultBlocks,
 } from '@plone/volto/config';

 export const settings = {
@@ -31,6 +31,6 @@ export const widgets = {
   ...defaultWidgets,
 };

-export const tiles = {
-  ...defaultTiles,
+export const blocks = {
+  ...defaultBlocks,
 };
```

### Add theme customization to your project

Volto 4 now also expects a file named `src/theme.js` with this content by default:

```js
import 'semantic-ui-less/semantic.less';
import '@plone/volto/../theme/themes/pastanaga/extras/extras.less';
```

### Remove enzyme configuration

Enzyme has been removed, in favor of `@testing-library/react`, and the configuration should be removed in `package.json`:

``` diff
diff --git a/package.json b/package.json
index 27c7f8d..8f5f088 100644
--- a/package.json
+++ b/package.json
@@ -44,9 +44,6 @@
       "default",
       "jest-junit"
     ],
-    "snapshotSerializers": [
-      "enzyme-to-json/serializer"
-    ],
     "transform": {
       "^.+\\.js(x)?$": "babel-jest",
       "^.+\\.css$": "jest-css-modules",
```

### Blocks engine - Blocks configuration object

The blocks engine was updated and there are some important breaking changes, in case that
you've developed custom blocks. The configuration object is now unified and expresses all
the properties to model a block. This is how a block in the `defaultBlocks` object looks
like:

```js
const defaultBlocks = {
  title: {
    id: 'title', // The name (id) of the block
    title: 'Title', // The display name of the block
    icon: titleSVG, // The icon used in the block chooser
    group: 'text', // The group (blocks can be grouped, displayed in the chooser)
    view: ViewTitleBlock, // The view mode component
    edit: EditTitleBlock, // The edit mode component
    restricted: false, // If the block is restricted, it won't show in in the chooser
    mostUsed: false, // A meta group `most used`, appearing at the top of the chooser
    blockHasOwnFocusManagement: false, // Set this to true if the block manages its own focus
    security: {
      addPermission: [], // Future proof (not implemented yet) add user permission role(s)
      view: [], // Future proof (not implemented yet) view user role(s)
    },
  },
  ...
```

There is an additional object `groupBlocksOrder` that contains an array with the order
that the blocks group should appear:

```js
const groupBlocksOrder = [
  { id: 'mostUsed', title: 'Most used' },
  { id: 'text', title: 'Text' },
  { id: 'media', title: 'Media' },
  { id: 'common', title: 'Common' },
];
```

You should adapt and merge the configuration of your own custom blocks to match the
`defaultBlocks` and `groupBlocksOrder` one. You can modify the order of the groups and
create your own as well.

### Blocks engine - Simplification of the edit blocks wrapper

The edit block wrapper boilerplate was quite big, and for bootstraping an edit block you had to copy it from an existing block. Now all this boilerplate has been transferred to the Blocks Engine, so bootstrapping the edit component of a block is easier and does not require any pre-existing code.

In order to upgrade your blocks you should simplify the outer `<div>` (took as an example the Title block):

``` diff
--- a/src/components/manage/Blocks/Title/Edit.jsx
+++ b/src/components/manage/Blocks/Title/Edit.jsx
@@ -138,11 +138,7 @@ class Edit extends Component {
       return <div />;
     }
     return (
-      <div
-        role="presentation"
-        onClick={() => this.props.onSelectBlock(this.props.block)}
-        className={cx('block title', { selected: this.props.selected })}
-      >
+      <>
         <Editor
           onChange={this.onChange}
           editorState={this.state.editorState}
@@ -185,7 +181,7 @@ class Edit extends Component {
             this.node = node;
           }}
         />
-      </div>
+      </>
     );
   }
 }
```

The blocks engine now takes care of the keyboard navigation of the blocks, so you need to remove the outer `<div>` from your custom block, then your block doesn't have to react to the change on `this.props.selected` either, because it's also something that the blocks engine already does for you.

The focus management is also transferred to the engine, so it's not needed for your block to manage the focus. However, if your block does indeed require to manage its own focus, then you should mark it with the `blockHasOwnFocusManagement` property in the blocks configuration object:

``` js hl_lines="10"
    text: {
      id: 'text',
      title: 'Text',
      icon: textSVG,
      group: 'text',
      view: ViewTextBlock,
      edit: EditTextBlock,
      restricted: false,
      mostUsed: false,
      blockHasOwnFocusManagement: true,
      security: {
        addPermission: [],
        view: [],
      },
    },
```

### Default view renaming

The default view for content types `DocumentView.jsx` has been renamed to a more appropriate `DefaultView.jsx`. This view contains the code for rendering blocks in case the content type has been Blocks enabled. Enable Blocks on your content types by composing the view of your content type using `DefaultView` component.

### Deprecations

- The old messages container has been removed since it's not used any more by Volto. We changed it to use the `Toast` library.
- Improved the Pastanaga Editor block wrapper container layout, deprecating the hack `.ui.wrapper > *`.

## Upgrading to Volto 3.x

Volto was upgraded to use Razzle 3.0.0 which is not a breaking change itself,
but it forces some changes in the boilerplate on your Volto projects. You
should change the babel config by deleting .babelrc file and creating a new
file `babel.config.js` with these contents:

```js
module.exports = require('@plone/volto/babel');
```

Then update your `package.json` to Volto 3.x.

```json
  "dependencies": {
    "@plone/volto": "3.0.0",
    ...
  }
```

Volto 3.x is compatible with the new changes introduced in the vocabularies
endpoint in plone.restapi 4.0.0. If you custom-build a widget based in the
Volto ones, you should update them as well. Volto updated its own widget set to
support them:

- `components/manage/Widgets/ArrayWidget`
- `components/manage/Widgets/SelectWidget`
- `components/manage/Widgets/TokenWidget`

They all use `react-select` third party library for render it.

## Upgrading to Volto 2.x

### Improved Blocks HOC

The Blocks HOC (High Order Component) was changed to lift off some
features from the blocks themselves, and now it takes care of them by itself.

- The delete block feature was moved to it
- The keylisteners for navigating through blocks was moved to it
- The properties passed down to the blocks are improved and documented

This change only applies to your existing blocks, you have to update them
accordingly by deleting the trash icon and action from the end of your blocks

```jsx
{this.props.selected && (
  <Button
    icon
    basic
    onClick={() => this.props.onDeleteBlock(this.props.block)}
    className="block-delete-button"
  >
    <Icon name={trashSVG} size="18px" />
  </Button>
)}
```

Modify the parent element of your block making these changes:

```jsx
<div
  role="presentation"
  onClick={() => this.props.onSelectBlock(this.props.block)}
  className={cx('block hero', {
    selected: this.props.selected,
  })}
  tabIndex={0}
  onKeyDown={e =>
    this.props.handleKeyDown(
      e,
      this.props.index,
      this.props.block,
      this.node
    )
  }
  ref={node => {
    this.node = node;
  }}
>
```

- Add the keylisteners to the parent element of your block

```jsx
  onKeyDown={e =>
    this.props.handleKeyDown(
      e,
      this.props.index,
      this.props.block,
      this.node
    )
  }
```

- Add a ref to it and assign it to `this.node`.

```jsx
  ref={node => {
    this.node = node;
  }}
```

- Add a proper role for it

```jsx
  role="presentation"
```

Take a look into the implementation of the default Volto blocks to get a grasp
on all the edge cases related to keyboard navigation and how to deal with them.

### Reordering of the internal CSS, added extra files

The internal Volto CSS has been tidied up and reordered, for that reason, some
other extras have been introduced and the theme.config in your project needs to
be updated by making sure you have these two extras in the
`theme.config` file:

```less
/* Extras */
@main        : 'pastanaga';
@custom      : 'pastanaga';
```
