docs/source/contributing/index.md, before:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "keywords": "Plone, Volto, contributing, developer, guidelines"
---

(contributing-to-volto-label)=

# Contributing to Volto

First read {doc}`plone:contributing/index`.
Volto follows those guidelines with a few specific variations, as described in this chapter.


(contributing-reporting-an-issue-or-making-a-feature-request-label)=

## Report an issue or make a feature request

If you know the issue or feature request is for Volto, first search for an existing item in the [Volto issue tracker](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues).

If an issue does not already exist for your item, then you can [create a new issue or feature request in Volto](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues/new/choose).
When in doubt, create one in the [CMFPlone issue tracker](https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone/issues).

In your report, please specify a few things:

-   What are the steps to reproduce the problem?
-   What do you expect when you follow those steps?
-   What do you observe?
-   Which Plone version are you using?
-   Include relevant screenshots, error messages, and stack traces.


(contributing-volto-sign-and-return-the-plone-contributor-agreement-label)=

## Sign and return the Plone Contributor Agreement

The Volto Team reviews pull requests only from people with a GitHub account who have signed and returned the {ref}`Plone Contributor Agreement <plone:contributing-sign-and-return-the-plone-contributor-agreement-label>`, and subsequently been assigned to a Plone Team in GitHub.


(contributing-branch-policy-label)=

## Branch policy

```{include} ../_inc/_branch-policy.md
```


(contributing-install-volto-for-development-label)=

## Install Volto for development

For developing Volto, follow {doc}`developing-core`.


(contributing-translations-label)=

## Translations

All text that can be shown in a browser must be translatable.
Please mark all such strings as translatable as defined in the [i18n guide](../development/i18n.md).


(contributing-branch-policy-for-translations-label)=

### Branch policy for translations

Due to the nature of `main` and numbered released branches, some developments that may land in `main` may not be backported to these branches.
This means that many translations that may come with those developments will be useless in the released branches, thus backporting them makes no sense.

When contributing translations, please create a branch from the numbered released branch, and point your pull request to that branch, instead of `main`.


(contributing-change-log-entry-label)=

## Change log entry

Volto requires that you include a change log entry or news item with your contribution.
Your attribution must be in the format of `@github_username`.

```{seealso}
For details see {ref}`contributing-change-log-label`.
```


(contributing-documenting-your-changes-label)=

## Document breaking changes

If the feature includes a breaking change, you must include instructions for how to upgrade in the [upgrade guide](../upgrade-guide/index.md).


(contributing-code-quality-label)=

## Code quality

All pull requests must pass tests, documentation builds, and other code quality checks.
These checks are enforced automatically on every pull request, so you might as well save time and frustration by doing these checks locally first.

Specifically:

-   {doc}`./linting`
-   {doc}`./testing`
-   {doc}`./acceptance-tests`
-   {doc}`./documentation`


(contributing-developer-guidelines-label)=

## Developer guidelines

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

developing-core
design-principles
style-guide
language-features
linting
testing
acceptance-tests
documentation
react
redux
routing
icons
accessibility-guidelines
bundle-size-optimization
typescript
volto-core-addons
version-policy
```


(contributing-final-advice-label)=

## Final advice

If you become hesitant after reading the foregoing, don't worry.
You can always create a pull request, mark it as "Draft", and improve these points later while requesting help from the community.

Commit message:

Enhance Volto contributing guidelines - Warn first-timers and all new pull requests that the Volto Team has suspended its review of new pull requests from first-time contributors until the release of Plone 7 in the second half of 2025. - Add boring-cyborg.yml to notify first-timers when creating a new pull request, issue, or their first pull request gets merged - Align social media icons with main Documentation for pull request preview - Force sort of issue chooser items with numerals - Add contact links - Disable blank issues - Bump versions in bug report, add Firefox

docs/source/contributing/index.md, after:

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:description": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "property=og:title": "How to contribute to Volto, the frontend for Plone."
    "keywords": "Plone, Volto, contributing, developer, guidelines"
---

(contributing-to-volto-label)=

# Contributing to Volto

```{important}
The Volto Team has suspended its review of new pull requests from first-time contributors until the release of Plone 7 in the second half of 2025.
This will allow the Volto Team to focus its efforts on delivering the next generation of Plone in a timely manner.

The Plone community welcomes contributions to {doc}`Plone 6 Documentation <plone:contributing/documentation/index>` or other {doc}`Plone <plone:contributing/index>` packages.
```

First read {doc}`plone:contributing/index`.
Volto follows those guidelines with a few specific variations, as described in this chapter.


(contributing-reporting-an-issue-or-making-a-feature-request-label)=

## Report an issue or make a feature request

If you know the issue or feature request is for Volto, first search for an existing item in the [Volto issue tracker](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues).

If an issue does not already exist for your item, then you can [create a new issue or feature request in Volto](https://github.com/plone/volto/issues/new/choose).
When in doubt, create one in the [CMFPlone issue tracker](https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone/issues).

In your report, please specify a few things:

-   What are the steps to reproduce the problem?
-   What do you expect when you follow those steps?
-   What do you observe?
-   Which Plone version are you using?
-   Include relevant screenshots, error messages, and stack traces.


(contributing-volto-sign-and-return-the-plone-contributor-agreement-label)=

## Sign and return the Plone Contributor Agreement

The Volto Team reviews pull requests only from people with a GitHub account who have signed and returned the {ref}`Plone Contributor Agreement <plone:contributing-sign-and-return-the-plone-contributor-agreement-label>`, and subsequently been assigned to a Plone Team in GitHub.


(contributing-branch-policy-label)=

## Branch policy

```{include} ../_inc/_branch-policy.md
```


(contributing-install-volto-for-development-label)=

## Install Volto for development

For developing Volto, follow {doc}`developing-core`.


(contributing-translations-label)=

## Translations

All text that can be shown in a browser must be translatable.
Please mark all such strings as translatable as defined in the [i18n guide](../development/i18n.md).


(contributing-branch-policy-for-translations-label)=

### Branch policy for translations

Due to the nature of `main` and numbered released branches, some developments that may land in `main` may not be backported to these branches.
This means that many translations that may come with those developments will be useless in the released branches, thus backporting them makes no sense.

When contributing translations, please create a branch from the numbered released branch, and point your pull request to that branch, instead of `main`.


(contributing-change-log-entry-label)=

## Change log entry

Volto requires that you include a change log entry or news item with your contribution.
Your attribution must be in the format of `@github_username`.

```{seealso}
For details see {ref}`contributing-change-log-label`.
```


(contributing-documenting-your-changes-label)=

## Document breaking changes

If the feature includes a breaking change, you must include instructions for how to upgrade in the [upgrade guide](../upgrade-guide/index.md).


(contributing-code-quality-label)=

## Code quality

All pull requests must pass tests, documentation builds, and other code quality checks.
These checks are enforced automatically on every pull request, so you might as well save time and frustration by doing these checks locally first.

Specifically:

-   {doc}`./linting`
-   {doc}`./testing`
-   {doc}`./acceptance-tests`
-   {doc}`./documentation`


(contributing-developer-guidelines-label)=

## Developer guidelines

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

developing-core
design-principles
style-guide
language-features
linting
testing
acceptance-tests
documentation
react
redux
routing
icons
accessibility-guidelines
bundle-size-optimization
typescript
volto-core-addons
version-policy
```


(contributing-final-advice-label)=

## Final advice

If you become hesitant after reading the foregoing, don't worry.
You can always create a pull request, mark it as "Draft", and improve these points later while requesting help from the community.
