packages/components/src/stories/Introduction.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

<Meta title="Introduction" />


# `@plone/components`

This package contains ReactJS components for using Plone as a headless CMS.

The purpose of this package is to provide an agnostic set of baseline components to build Plone sites upon.

## Usage

Using the package manager of your choice (npm, yarn, pnpm) install the package:

```shell
yarn add @plone/components
```

Whenever you want to use the components, all are exported as named exports:

```ts
import { TextField } from '@plone/components';

const MyComponent = (props) => {
  return (
    <>
      <TextField label="Username" />
    </>;
  )
}

export default MyComponent;
```

## Styling

This package provide a basic set of CSS rules.
You should add them to your project build to make the components properly styled.

You can bring your own styles, but the CSS you provide should replace what the basic stylying does and style the bare components from scratch.

You can use the CSS bundled for all components in a single file, or use the specific files for your components.
They are distributed along with the components code in the `dist` folder of the library.

```js
import '@plone/components/dist/basic.css';
```

or selectively:

```js
import '@plone/components/src/styles/basic/TextField.css';
```


## Quanta

This package also features the Quanta components.
The Quanta theme is an example of it.
These components use the basic styling as a baseline, not only in styling, but also in the component side, reusing the CSS and custom CSS properties in it.

Quanta is built upon the basic styles in an additive way.
The use of the Quanta CSS implies using it upon basic styling.
You could take Quanta as example to build your own layer of styles over basic styling for your theme.

To use a theme built upon the basic styling, you need to import both the basic and the theme CSS, in this order:

```js
import '@plone/components/dist/basic.css';
import '@plone/components/dist/quanta.css';
```

You have the option of doing it selectively per component, too:

```js
import '@plone/components/src/styles/basic/TextField.css';
import '@plone/components/src/styles/quanta/TextField.css';
```

Commit message:

Fix precedence of the quanta layer by adding a base layer for all the… (#6539)
Co-authored-by: Steve Piercy <web@stevepiercy.com>

packages/components/src/stories/Introduction.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

<Meta title="Introduction" />


# `@plone/components`

This package contains ReactJS components for Plone 7 and Plone's API-first CMS story.

The purpose of this package is to provide an agnostic set of baseline components to build Plone sites upon.

## Usage

You can use your choice of package manager (npm, yarn, or pnpm) to install the package in your app.
If you add the components to a Volto add-on or workspace, use pnpm, as shown.

```shell
pnpm add @plone/components
```

Whenever you want to use the components, all are exported as named exports:

```ts
import { TextField } from '@plone/components';

const MyComponent = (props) => {
  return (
    <>
      <TextField label="Username" />
    </>;
  )
}

export default MyComponent;
```

## Styling

This package provide a basic set of CSS rules.
You should add them to your project build to make the components properly styled.

You can bring your own styles, but the CSS you provide should replace what the basic stylying does and style the bare components from scratch.

You can use the CSS bundled for all components in a single file, or use the specific files for your components.
They are distributed along with the components code in the `dist` folder of the library.

```js
import '@plone/components/dist/basic.css';
```

or selectively:

```js
import '@plone/components/src/styles/basic/TextField.css';
```

### CSS layers

This package uses CSS layers to style the components in a more flexible way.
It uses the `plone-components` layer name to scope all the CSS declarations in the package.
The basic styling uses the nested `plone-components.base` named layer.
You can use the `plone-components` layer to override the basic styling, or use the `plone-components.base` layer to override the basic styling in a more specific way.

### Quanta

This package also features the Quanta components.
These components use the basic styling as a baseline, extending them to achieve the Quanta look and feel.
They also extend the basic React components in a composable way.
The Quanta styling is scoped in the `plone-components.quanta` named layer.

Quanta is built upon the basic styles in an additive way.
The use of the Quanta CSS implies using it upon basic styling.
You could take Quanta as example to build your own layer of styles over basic styling for your theme.

To use a theme built upon the basic styling, you need to import both the basic and the theme CSS, in this order:

```js
import '@plone/components/dist/basic.css';
import '@plone/components/dist/quanta.css';
```

You have the option of doing it selectively per component, too:

```js
import '@plone/components/src/styles/basic/TextField.css';
import '@plone/components/src/styles/quanta/TextField.css';
```
