packages/registry/docs/howto/how-to-shadow-a-component.md, before:

# How to shadow a component (or module)

Component (or module) shadowing is a technique that allows you to define an alternative module for a specific module.
You normally would want to override a module from another add-on.
This add-on should meet the Add-on Registry rules and not be transpiled.

This technique relies on `resolve.alias` feature of the bundlers, so the module is effectively being replaced by the alternative one supplied.
You will need to modify some imports in the alternative module to comply with the new placement and convert relative imports to absolute ones.

To override the component, first, you should identify the component you want to shadow in the package that is being defined.
Then, replicate the same folder structure that the original component has in the source code and place it inside the `customizations` folder of your add-on.
Start by using the name of the package.
If the package has a namespace, then use a folder to define it.

In order to identify them, you can use several approaches the main one using
[React Developer Tools](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi)
then you can inspect the app and find out the name of the component (the name
of the tag), then search for it in the source code.

## Customizing the Logo resource

So, for example, if we want to replace the Logo which is located in the `@plone/slots` package in the {file}`components/Logo/Logo.svg` file, the folder structure needs to match the folder structure of that package in the `customizations` folder.
So the final path of the new overridden component will be: {file}`src/customizations/@plone/slots/components/Logo/Logo.svg`.

Commit message:

Add specific test for an app folder (non-Volto), add bare customization folder (non-src-based)

packages/registry/docs/howto/how-to-shadow-a-component.md, after:

# How to shadow a component (or module)

Component (or module) shadowing is a technique that allows you to define an alternative module for a specific module.
You normally would want to override a module from another add-on.
This add-on should meet the Add-on Registry rules and not be transpiled.

This technique relies on `resolve.alias` feature of the bundlers, so the module is effectively being replaced by the alternative one supplied.
You will need to modify some imports in the alternative module to comply with the new placement and convert relative imports to absolute ones.

To override the component, first, you should identify the component you want to shadow in the package that is being defined.
Then, replicate the same folder structure that the original component has in the source code and place it inside the `customizations` folder of your add-on.
Start by using the name of the package you want to shadow.
If the package has a namespace, then use a folder to define it.

In order to identify them, you can use several approaches the main one using
[React Developer Tools](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi)
then you can inspect the app and find out the name of the component (the name
of the tag), then search for it in the source code.
Alternatively, you can browse the contents of the source package you want to shadow by searching for it inside `node_modules` of your app folder.

## Example: Customizing the Logo resource

So, for example, if we want to replace the Logo which is located in the `@plone/slots` package in the {file}`components/Logo/Logo.svg` file, the folder structure needs to match the folder structure of that package in the `customizations` folder.
So the final path of the new overridden component will be: {file}`src/customizations/@plone/slots/components/Logo/Logo.svg`.
