packages/registry/docs/howto/how-to-register-an-addon.md, before:

# How to register an add-on in your app

You have two ways available for registering an add-on in your app.
You can do so either through the `addons` key in your {file}`package.json` or by using a configuration file.

## Via `addons` key in `package.json`

The following code sample shows how to register your add-on in your app through the `addons` key in your {file}`package.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "my-app-project",
  "addons": [
    "acme-volto-foo-addon",
    "@plone/some-addon",
    "collective-another-volto-addon"
  ]
}
```

The add-ons are registered in the order they are found in the `addons` key.
The last add-on takes precedence over the others.
This means that if you configure something in `acme-volto-foo-addon`, then the same thing later in `collective-another-volto-addon`, the latter configured thing will win and its configuration will be applied.

All add-ons should have set the `main` entry module in `package.json`, for example {file}`src/index.js`.
This function should have a signature of `config => config`.
That is, it should take the configuration registry object and return it, possibly mutated or changed.

```ts
import type { ConfigType } from '@plone/registry'

export default function applyConfig(config: ConfigType) {
  return config
};
```

The `addons` key ensures the add-on's main default export function is executed, being passed the configuration registry.

## Via a configuration file

The configuration file can be provided via an environment variable.
You can use one of these two environment variables.

- `REGISTRYCONFIG`
- `VOLTOCONFIG`

The value of the environment variable must point to a file that exists relative to the app folder (the one you pass to the instatiation of the Add-on Registry).
You can pass also the full path of the file.

For example, if your configuration file is named {file}`my-add-on-registry-config.js` and is located at the root of your add-on package, you would set your environment variable as shown.

```shell
set REGISTRYCONFIG="my-add-on-registry.config.js"
```

If the file that you specify in the environment variable exists, then `@plone/registry` uses it to configure your add-on.
If it does not exist, then `@plone/registry` looks for the configuration file in the following locations in the root of your app in order.
The first found configuration file wins.

- `registry.config.js`
- `volto.config.js`

This is an example of a configuration file.
You must define it in [CommonJS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS) format.

```js
module.exports = {
  addons: ['my-volto-config-addon'],
};
```

If your app is in ESM (`"type": "module"` in `package.json`), then you should use the `.cjs` suffix for the configuration file to mark it as a proper `CommonJS` file.

If `@plone/registry` finds no configuration file, then it only relies on the configuration (if any) in the `addons` key in `package.json`.

Commit message:

Explain better why do we want to use a configuration file

packages/registry/docs/howto/how-to-register-an-addon.md, after:

# How to register an add-on in your app

You have two ways available for registering an add-on in your app.
You can do so either through the `addons` key in your {file}`package.json` or by using a configuration file.

```{note}
Using a configuration file is useful when you want to add some logic to the `addons` list if you want it to be dynamic.
For example, you can make the list dynamic given an environment variable.
```

## Via `addons` key in `package.json`

The following code sample shows how to register your add-on in your app through the `addons` key in your {file}`package.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "my-app-project",
  "addons": [
    "acme-volto-foo-addon",
    "@plone/some-addon",
    "collective-another-volto-addon"
  ]
}
```

The add-ons are registered in the order they are found in the `addons` key.
The last add-on takes precedence over the others.
This means that if you configure something in `acme-volto-foo-addon`, then the same thing later in `collective-another-volto-addon`, the latter configured thing will win and its configuration will be applied.

All add-ons should have set the `main` entry module in `package.json`, for example {file}`src/index.js`.
This function should have a signature of `config => config`.
That is, it should take the configuration registry object and return it, possibly mutated or changed.

```ts
import type { ConfigType } from '@plone/registry'

export default function applyConfig(config: ConfigType) {
  return config
};
```

The `addons` key ensures the add-on's main default export function is executed, being passed the configuration registry.

## Via a configuration file

The configuration file can be provided via an environment variable.
You can use one of these two environment variables.

- `REGISTRYCONFIG`
- `VOLTOCONFIG`

The value of the environment variable must point to a file that exists relative to the app folder (the one you pass to the instatiation of the Add-on Registry).
You can pass also the full path of the file.

For example, if your configuration file is named {file}`my-add-on-registry-config.js` and is located at the root of your add-on package, you would set your environment variable as shown.

```shell
set REGISTRYCONFIG="my-add-on-registry.config.js"
```

```{note}
This is useful in case that you want to provide different `addon` configurations files under different scenarios.
```

If the file that you specify in the environment variable exists, then `@plone/registry` uses it to configure your add-on.
If it does not exist, then `@plone/registry` looks for the configuration file in the following locations in the root of your app in order.
The first found configuration file wins.

- `registry.config.js`
- `volto.config.js`

This is an example of a configuration file.
You must define it in [CommonJS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS) format.

```js
module.exports = {
  addons: ['my-volto-config-addon'],
};
```

If your app is in ESM (`"type": "module"` in `package.json`), then you should use the `.cjs` suffix for the configuration file to mark it as a proper `CommonJS` file.

If `@plone/registry` finds no configuration file, then it only relies on the configuration (if any) in the `addons` key in `package.json`.
